 

 

THE CHRONICLE OF
PAGAN

A TREATISE ON THE GLORIOUS HISTORY OF THIS

FOREMOST SOCIETY

by

BENTIC, HUMBLE SCHOLAR AND STUDENT

here is little in the world more refreshing to me than

knowledge. I remember in my youth hearing tales of
legendary times, unexplored places and fantastic beasts. I
constantly pestered my parents and instructors with an
endless number of questions. How does this work? Why
did they act in such a manner? Where can I find these
plants? My thirst for information was — nay, still is —
insatiable. I spent hours at a time investigating all I
could about my surroundings. Unfortunately, as I
realized early in life, I lacked much in the way of
physical prowess, making exploration difficult. Imagine
my pleasure when I discovered that not only did life
itself teach me things great and wondrous, but the
myriad ancient tomes could offer nearly as much. It was
then that I elected to dedicate this humble life to filling
my mind and library with all the knowledge I could.
Thus, I humbly add these words to the collection of
wisdom that already fills the multitude of bookshelves
throughout the land. I hope my work may someday
imbue the hearts of others with curtosity.

 

——

 

— a

|
| Archaic Alphabet

¢

ee ee ee aie — —

 

CONTENTS

HISTORY
First EPOCH:
AGE OF THE ANCIENT ONES...4
CUNT AES. ch eatrena cuted Gane Kewavedans 4

SECOND EPOCH:
THE TIME OF CHANGE........... 4

THIRD EPOCH:
PACIFYING THE TITANS........... 6
Calming the Earth
Stilling the Seas
Assisting the Air
Binding the Flame

FOURTH EPOCH:
THE AGE OF PEACE. .............. 10

BB ITADIBIA « cssicicaccrsnccswencuccxve 10

TRAVELER’S GUIDE

DPR rut sas iivsnee teecontvaartecainth 12
Tenebrae
Plateau
Vengeance Bay
Cemetery
Hall of the Mountain King
Argentrock Isle
Sorcerer’s Enclave
PROPER siscsiscscicsopsscinezienise 15
Mordea
Lothian and Vividos
Stellos
Malchir
Mythran
MERCHANTS AND MONEY.....16
WEAPONS AND ARMOR......... 16

BESTIARY
DOMESTICATED CREATURES..17
Kith
Torax
CREATURES OF THE WILDS ...18
Changeling
Troll

Seeker

UNDEAD AND SUPERNATURAL
CRB ARTUR ES wscs cacti bsnusanxrnssnecs 19
Aerial Servant
Daemon
Ghost
Ghoul

Minion of the Lurker
Skeleton Warrior

A TREATISE BY MYTHRAN
THE THAUMATURGE
A WORD ON CASTING. ......... Zo

IN ECROMANCY qo cssicsvacssarscctan’ 24
Reagents
Rituals

ES Te a en as 26
Powers of Tempestry

THRORGY iccsecsesccssreisteccs 26
Invocations

ESDSO) Liesl jp Sana een a, 28

Reagents
Spelleraft

"PHAUIMATUIRIGY. occ cviiovswsecsuses a
Reagents
Enchantments

 

 

 
 
   
 

ae eg ay
bp yo J ee ;

ia Saath fant

4

HISTORY

   

First EPOCH: AGE OF THE ANCIENT ONES

Ages ago, in the First Epoch of our lands, mankind was able to walk across
the plains and traverse the seas which are today so hazardous. Our forebears,
known as Zealans, worshipped the false words of the Ancient Ones, the
rulers of emotions. The beautiful goddess Amoras, say the ancient texts,
controlled the aspects of love and joy, appearing when those feelings were
prevalent in Zealan communities. However, when their primitive emotions
changed to hate or grief, fierce Odion was there to display his might. Ever
holding the links between those two, so the legend goes, is proud Apathas,
ruler of cool impartiality. Under the questionable comfort of these three lay
the entire world, within which lived and toiled our ancestors.

ZEALANS

Our forebears were a simple lot, savagely ignoring rational thought in
deference to the false tenets of emotion. They had little sense of society,
often quarreling among themselves, and even less knowledge of economy.
To their credit, they were skilled warriors and hunters, and many of their
martial forms are taught to this day. Centuries passed before a Zealan war
chieftain, called Khumash-Gor, conquered most of his competing tribes.
He unified them into a single community of considerable size and
influence, and ruled for decades before falling to an assassin’s poisoned
blade. Several of his successors attempted to recapture the qualities of
Khumash-Gor’s leadership, all of whom failed. Then, once again, the
people broke into conflicting clans, keeping only their primitive religion as
a unifying aspect of Zealan society.

SECOND EPOCH: THE TIME OF CHANGE

Then came a glorious change to the people of the land. Spoken only in
hushed whispers, the leaders of a religious rebellion first made the words of
the Guardian known to the public. ‘This Guardian talked to them within
their minds, foretelling of a dark time when a champion of tremendous evil
would try to enter their world. This Destroyer would turn the very forces of
nature — the elements of earth, water, air and fire — against them, raining
destruction across the land. Only by offering worship to those very elements
could the people hope to dissuade them from assisting the Destroyer.

Most of the Zealans scoffed, but several heeded the warnings of the
Guardian, building, on his advice, a great temple high atop a mountain
peak. With much effort and considerable magics they constructed a giant,
black obelisk. There, so the Guardian explained, they could focus their
worship of the elements, offering lives in sacrifice to the elemental spirits.
As the Guardian had promised, the spirits grew in power, assuming titanic

 

  

 

forms: Lithos, the Mountain King, Elemental of Earth; Hydros, the Lurker,
Elemental of Water; Stratos, the Mystic Voice, Elemental of Air; and Pyros,
Lord of Flame, Elemental of Fire.

The archaic deities of the emotions became enraged as their powers diminished,
commanding their worshippers to slay the followers of this new religion, who
thus became known as Pagans. Brother turned against brother as a bloody war
raged across the land. The message of the Guardian grew louder, and fewer
Zealans heeded the words of the Ancient Ones, turning instead to the worship of
the Elemental Titans. Though the war raged for years, it became quickly
apparent that the Pagans would emerge victorious. Thousands of Zealans were
killed when Hydros withdrew from their lands and Lithos forever sealed them
within the Lost Vale. Then, when the Pagans had nearly routed most of the
Zealan resistance, the Guardian gave his final warning: “Take your people and
depart from the temple. The Destroyer has come.”

The Pagans fled the temple and, just as the Guardian had prophesied, a
scarlet visage appeared in the sky — the last time the Pagan sky was visible.
The Destroyer’s malevolent yellow eyes glared out across the land, finally
resting upon the great temple, and bolts of lightning shot forth,
obliterating the entire mountain top. The people cried out, calling for the
aid of the Titans. Also as predicted, the Titans rose to the challenge, facing
the Destroyer in a fantastic battle.

Clouds shrouded the earth. Night and day seemed to cease, pitching the
world into a state of never-ending twilight. The earth shook in violent
tremors while torrents of rain and hail pelted down from above. The very
winds transformed into cyclones, whipping across the land, and volcanoes
opened up like wounds, hurling fiery death upon the people. Much of the
land was broken apart and many islands were annihilated or forced beneath
the seas. Finally, the Titans returned to face the people, claiming victory
against the Destroyer.

The world that remained was pitted and scarred, a vast wasteland with a
smattering of island chains. The ocean brine had increased ten-fold —
formerly lush shore plants now withered at the touch of the tide. Many of
the survivors, both Pagans and Zealans, gathered on one of the larger
islands, from then on called Morgaelin after the volcanic remains of its lone
mountain of the same name. However, despite the falling of the Destroyer,
the world did not return to peaceful times. The Titans became enamored of
their vast powers, demanding even greater sacrifices in return for their past
deed. They set upon each other as they vied for supremacy of the world.

The Pagans constructed holy sanctuaries, one for each of the Titans, in an
effort to appease them. The fight for control between the Elemental Titans
continued, while the few remaining Zealans who had sought refuge in the
nearby mountains launched continual raids upon the Pagans. Though the
Destroyer was gone, the people were still in constant turmoil.

 

 

 

THIRD Epocu: PACIFYING THE TITANS

i | =

Calming the Earth

The elder Pagans knew it would be
impossible to overcome the might of
the Titans, so they sought to bargain
instead. They sent a champion,
Moriens, to the Hall of the
Mountain King to plead with Lithos,
begging him to cease his destructive
quakes. In return, Lithos demanded
the service of the people, even
beyond life. Upon their deaths the
people were to be interred, and thus
conveyed to his realm for eternal
slavery. In addition, ordered the
hungry Mountain King, several
Pagans must be given to him immediately. With this pact Lithos would not
only quiet the land, but also instill within Moriens the magical powers
necessary to perform rituals required to satisfy the Titan of Earth, including
minor manipulation of the earth. The elders accepted the terrible price and
the covenant was formed.

=

 

Moriens became the leader of the Pagans — the first in a long line of
Necromancers. He established a cemetery near the newly built Tenebrae,
City of Eternal Twilight. He selected several elderly citizens to volunteer as
Lithos’ first servants. As agreed, the tremors ended and the earth calmed.

As the decades passed, Moriens began to feel within himself the infirmity of
age and its resultant illnesses. He went to Lithos and asked to have his life
extended so that he might continue his work. The Mountain King
explained that such was not within his power, but that there was another
way to have the Pagans continue their service. He permitted Moriens to
choose an Apprentice so that, upon his death, a new Necromancer would
assume his position. In turn, the deceased Necromancer would enter a
different service than the other Pagans, one that involved eternal rest, where
his wisdom could be called upon by other Necromancers down through the
ages. Each succeeding Necromancer would, in turn, find an Apprentice to
whom the powers would be passed upon death. The earth shook no more,
but still the volcano raged, the winds blew and the rains fell.

 

 

Stilling the Seas

Many generations of hardships
passed and a hero became known to
the people. His name was Kalen, and
in time he became their
Necromancer. He fell in love with his
Apprentice, who returned his
affections, and soon they were to
undergo the Ceremony of Bonding.
Then tragedy befell them as Hydros,
considerably displeased with the pact
between Lithos and the Pagans, sent
a great wave to wash across the city,
pulling Kalen’s beloved into the seas.
As the people began repairs to the
city, Kalen headed to the Temple of
Flowing Waters.

 

There Kalen begged for the return of his betrothed, but Hydros refused his
request. Instead she revealed to him the image of his love in her new form,
pale and sickly as that of one of the Lurker’s minions. Thoughts of
vengeance entered Kalen’s mind and he visited Lithos to learn of means
for justice. He found the Mountain King eager to comply, having no love
for a rival Titan. Lithos revealed that a powerful substance, called
Blackrock, was immutable by any amount of the Lurker’s powerful waves.

Kalen remembered the tales of the ancient Pagan Temple and the great
obelisk. He returned to the volcano and found in the crater the remains
of the obelisk. There, in the murky waters continually filled by Hydros’
rains, was the darkened silt of this Blackrock. Using his Necromantic
powers, Kalen reshaped the crater to prevent fresh water from entering
the Temple of Flowing Water. In addition, he melded the Blackrock into
the crater wall, preventing the Lurker from eroding away the land. He
had trapped Hydros.

Entering the Temple, Kalen was prepared to destroy both it and Hydros
by reforming the crater. His intention was that not enough water should
remain for the Titan’s existence. Before he could complete the task, the
Lurker’s pleas stayed his hand. She promised to return his beloved’s body
so that it could be interred properly, no longer a servant to the Titan of
Water. She also offered to pass on to him and all in his future bloodline a
modicum of her powers, equal in measure to the abilities he gained from
Lithos. Kalen accepted her bargain for the good of the people. From that
point on, the storms ended, and two separate sects of magic, Necromancy
and Tempestry, were present in the land.

 

 

 

Assisting the Air
Several years after the torrential rains
ceased, a mystical voice contacted
Stellos, a wizened follower of Stratos,
while he was praying at Argentrock
Isle. The voice identified herself as
Stratos, ruler of Air. Stellos began
telling others of the Mystic Voice,
but they thought nothing of his
Fg insane ranting ... until he began

TS Sat ‘fi Utorret performing miracles. Quickly it

wD St a spread through the land that Stellos
: could aid the sick and draw truth
from the lips of liars. Word of his
powers reached Kalen, who brought
to Stellos the body of his betrothed. The elderly man took Kalen’s love to
Windy Point and asked for the power to return her to life.

 

 

Stratos explained that the woman’s body had been separated from her spirit
for too long. It would be possible to breathe life into her, but only at great
cost. Hoping to repay Kalen for his work in ending the rains, Stellos agreed
to the unknown fee. Stratos permitted the determined man to send his
spirit into the realm of Air. Farther and farther he went, facing tremendous
winds. There he finally found a shimmering cloud at the very verge of the
sky itself and something he later called the ethereal void. As he entered the
cloud, the light of day confronted him; he was the first and, to this day,
only Pagan to see sunlight in many generations. On the dark island below,
his mouth opened and from it flowed the breath of life into the body of
Kalen’s beloved.

The old man, prepared to greet the lovers, returned to his body only to
discover he had lost his vision — forever blinded by the sight of the sun.
Kalen began to weep, but Stellos bade him stop. He was himself truly
joyful at the sight he had witnessed far above the darkness of the clouds.
To show his gratitude, Kalen commanded the rocky ground to form the
walls for a stone construct to house and protect the old man. Here Stellos
could pass on his knowledge of healing and purification throughout the
ages, for with the power of resurrection came immortality. Stellos and his
pupils became known as Theurgists, and together they were proclaimed
the Order of Enlightenment. The Order was never wanting for students,
for one Titan’s violence was yet unquelled, and with the fires came always
the wounded.

 

 

 

 

Binding the Flame

Centuries after Stellos’ miracle of
resurrection, a group of five
Theurgists pooled their knowledge
and resources to learn more about
the Lord of Flame. During their
studies, they reached an important
realization. If Blackrock was
anathema to the Lurker, they
conjectured, perhaps it held
debilitating effects for Pyros, as
well. Knowing that the fires
spewing from the volcano would
annihilate the island in less than a
year, the five acted on their
speculation.

 

 

 

 

 

Some of the Theurgists visited the Necromancer to procure as much
Blackrock as they could. They received several small chips, in addition to a
single fragment larger than a man’s head. Other Theurgists set about
formulating the necessary diagrams and components required to shape the
dark substance, and with luck, bind Pyros within.

Finally, the five were ready to begin. They drew a pentagram upon the
floor in Pyros’ Temple, setting the Blackrock in the center where the Lord
of Flame was likely to appear. Four of the Theurgists took a point of the
pentagram and knelt in readiness, while the fifth stood at the final point
and began the traditional Ritual of Summoning. As expected, Pyros
appeared in a searing blaze of fire. Immediately feeling the effects of the
Blackrock with which he was in contact, he pointed towards a Theurgist
and instantly enveloped him in fire. Before the dying Theurgist’s tortured
scream could fade, the remaining four made up for the loss and quickly
commenced the binding process’ chants. Flames licked about the
Theurgists as they intoned the various words of power until finally it was
over. Pyros was bound in the larger fragment.

Adversely affected from within the Blackrock, Pyros was unable to hurl lava
upon the Pagans. At first the Theurgists were revered as saviors, until the
people began to realize what corrupting mental transformations had been
required of the four Theurgists. Rightly fearing the power the Theurgists
wielded over fire, the people labeled them Sorcerers for their dealings with
daemons, and shunned them. The Sorcerers readily accepted their fate and
secreted themselves away from the others. They named a Master Sorcerer,
though after a violent death he was replaced by the First Acolyte. Many
accusations were cast about who was responsible for the death, though
nothing ever came of it. A precedent was set, however, and in the
subsequent centuries, the more powerful Acolytes were always ready to take
the Mastery from those fellow Sorcerers who grew weak or complacent.

 

 

FOURTH EPOCH: THE AGE OF PEACE

After the Titans were appeased or controlled, the era of peace which still
exists to this day settled on the people. The few Zealans who clung
tenaciously to their weakening gods are now extinct, though only after the
Pagans endured decades of raiding and murder.

People are free to live normal lives. They tend their fields or wares,
performing their daily duties as is right. Those few who have instead
devoted their lives to the pursuit of magic live apart from the populous.
The Necromancers, asked to depart from society to perform the distasteful
but necessary task of preparing the dead for Lithos, have handed over their
rule to the Tempests. ‘The Sorcerers remain in their hidden enclave, while
the Theurgists continue their studies in the monastery on their small
island.

 

BRITANNIA

his segment of history, if it can be called such, belongs

more in a work of fiction than in this objective
treatise of our land and our culture. However, at Vardion’s
rather persuasive — and sorcerous — insistence, I have
included it within these pages. Though the veracity of the
source 1s unknown, Vardion claims these stories, as told by
his grandmother, Mordra, must have some bearing on
reality or she would not have passed them on. Vardion is a
great and widely respected sorcerer, and even the
Thaumaturge Mythran speaks highly of the aged woman,
yet one must wonder about the truth of tales describing this
other world, the one called Britannia.

 

 

THREE AGES OF DARKNESS

During the early formation of this mythical Britannia, there came to be
three embodiments of evil. The first was a spellcaster named Mondain, the
second was his Apprentice Minax, and the third was their unusual
offspring, the entity Exodus. In each case, the ruler of this Britannia called
for assistance in defeating the great evil, and, in each case, the same strange
champion appeared to conquer the malevolent forces assaulting the land.
The stranger was able to claim victory all three times, thus proving
considerable courage and skill.

THREE AGES OF ENLIGHTENMENT

Following the destruction of the three faces of evil, there came three more
times of trial for this world of Britannia. The first involved establishing a
set of ethical codes by which the general population should live. In
addition, the ruler of the land called for a hero to step forward and solve
several quests designed to represent one of the codes of ethics. The selfsame
champion who defeated the three sources of ultimate evil emerged
successfully from the eight quests, becoming the embodiment of those
codes. As champion, the hero was integral in resolving political strife when
the ruler of the land disappeared and was replaced by Blackthorn, a
tyrannical lord who harshly enforced the letter of the law. Finally, the
champion served the kingdom a sixth time, demonstrating that a perceived
source of malevolence was in reality a collection of individuals trying to
right a serious wrong.

AGE OF ARMAGEDDON

The mighty Thaumaturge Mythran has added a bit of credibility to
Mordra’s tales by telling one of his own. He does not seem to remember
the source of this story, but he believes that it must be part of the
mythology put forth by Vardion’s grandmother.

Following the sixth adventure, the champion disappeared from the land,
returning nearly two centuries later! This time, however, the hero appeared
without summons, for no one knew of any cataclysms that required
reparations. Yet it was not long before the champion was again facing great
evil, this time in the form of an insidious organization called The Fellowship
that had insinuated itself into Britannian society. In addition, a magical
island, once home to the very Exodus of the Third Age of Darkness, had
risen to the surface, indicating a further threat to Britannia. During this
seventh period of service, the champion was able to uncover the dastardly
plot of The Fellowship and remove the evil presence forming on the island.

There is nothing more known about the history of this unusual land, for
Vardion has had no contact with his grandmother for some time now and
Mythran remembers no more stories. Yet Vardion remains confident of the
existence of this world of Britannia, and that its presence is related to his
grandmother’s alleged disappearance.

 

 

TRAVELER'S
GUIDE

   

PLACES

Tenebrae

Named the City of Eternal Twilight, Tenebrae is the only community —
excluding the various groups of spellcasters — known still to exist on
Morgaelin. It was first built ages ago by our Zealan ancestors, who were
forced out during the
ancient wars. Despite its
heritage, many of the
edifices are new, having
been reconstructed in
recent years.

In the central part of the
city is the Great Palace,
home and court of the
reigning Lady. From
there she rules with a firm
hand, keeping the peace
via her very real threat of
sending criminals to a
watery grave.

aan aml ts eye, ie aia vi iis tion Plateau
ae ae This crag that overlook

s crag that overlooks
the city supports a small
hut, home to the
mysterious Mythran.
Covered with a few groves
of trees, the area is remarkably nondescript, and Mythran has done little to
change the flora and fauna other than construct his unusual abode. It is said
that this is where to find information no others could possibly know.

 

Vengeance Bay

This area is beyond the reach of those without the means to cross the seas
in safety — a rare thing in these times. The bay was the site of the last and
greatest true battle between the Zealans and the Pagans, who won by
calling upon Hydros to pull the Zealan leader’s ship under the sea. To
further the show of power, Hydros spat the ship back up, cursing all on
board to eternal slavery as part of her undead legion.

 

 

 

Cemetery

‘The cemetery is where
the dead are interred and
then sent to Lithos. It is
also home not only to the
Necromancer and her
Apprentice, but to dozens
of the Mountain King’s
servants. Even before
reaching the cemetery,
the stench of death
becomes overpowering,
and many ghouls and
skeletons are visible from
the gates. Very few are
brave or foolish enough
to enter the graveyard to
speak with the
Necromancer, and
usually only the
Apprentice travels into
the city for supplies.

 

alae
ily nt itm

Me al “lh rm ll
ne tu ith ly ae Ms

 

Hall of the Mountain
King

Located at the base of the
mountain at Stone Cove,
the Hall of the Mountain
King is, indeed, where
the Necromancers may
go to speak with Lithos.
In fact, only those with
the powers of a
Necromancer or
Apprentice are able to
enter, for the seemingly
inoperable stone door
stops all others.

 

Sorcerer’s Enclave
Among the most dark-
some places in Pagan is
the treacherous territory
known as Sorcerer’s
Enclave. There the Mages
of Fire perform unknown
and possibly horrific
magics, as they consort
with their patron Titan,
Pyros. Fortunately, the
area is quite secluded, as a
boiling lake of fire
surrounds the collection
of buildings, making it
impossible for those who
are not members of the
sorcerous cabal to
traverse.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ue

Argentrock Isle

This small islet, reached
only by a bridge, is home
to the monastery of the
Order of Enlightenment.
There the Theurgists
have the opportunity to
attend to their studies in
the peace and quiet
necessary to achieve
Enlightenment and
Purity. Those Theurgists
who learn well the lessons
of Stratos are permitted
to visit Windy Point,
where a truly pure Adept
might hope to hear the
Mystic Voice.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Mh il MH
ak i \
HI tl ill |

oe
Hi il Em

tt

——
-———

 

 

 

 

 

 

PEOPLE
Mordea

Ruler and Tempest of Tenebrae, our Lady Mordea governs with strict
attention to detail. Her right of rule was inherited from her Tempest
father, Keldan, and noble mother, Celidia — both royalty and real power
support her claim to rulership. Our Lady is extremely aware of her
position, accepting only the utmost in loyalty from her subjects.

Lothian and Vividos

Lothian is the strong and stoic Necromancer, quite competent in her
abilities to convey the deceased to Lithos. She has little opportunity to
converse with the citizens of nearby Tenebrae; her work keeps her so
tremendously occupied. The townspeople are, however, friendly to her new
Apprentice, Vividos. His vivacious personality is a good complement to
Lothian’s, making it easy for him to deal with the world outside the
distasteful realm of the cemetery.

Stellos

Stellos is a wise and kind man for whom the term elderly is more a measure
of appearance than chronology, for his dealings with Stratos have left him
immortal. Ever concerned for the welfare of others, he is perfectly suited
for his role as instructor at the Order of Enlightenment. The only man
alive from our tumultuous past, Stellos is a still-breathing legend who
matches perfectly the stories of his heroic encounter in the realm of Air.

Malchir

Few know much about Malchir, the Master Sorcerer, and those who know
anything at all are his fellow followers of fire. It is said he is a dark man,
but no one knows whether his bitterness led him to, or is a result of, his
status. There are those who speculate he bears a greater resemblance to the
daemons he commands than to normal men.

Mythran

Master of Thaumaturgy, Mythran, is a quirky, peculiar man. Many give
witness to his abilities with magic, yet none can draw a connection between
his powers and those of any of the other spellcasters. There seems little that
he does not know or cannot find out, and many have made their way to his
home atop the plateau to glean what they can from his wisdom. He speaks
as though there were other Thaumaturges, but I have heard naught of them
elsewhere.

Those who have seen it say his house is quite unusual. Only a small hovel
on the outside, his home is considerably larger within. Rumors claim that
the entire second story is devoted to his research and experiments, and
considering his vast wealth of knowledge, there seems no reason for doubt.

 

 

MERCHANTS AND MONEY

During the Third Epoch, after the Age of the Necromancers passed and
Tempests came to rule, the Pagans learned the value of coins — namely that a
universal currency saved wear and tear on the feet. Much deliberation went
on as to what should best represent this abstract item of value. Some wanted
the trappings of precious metals, but decided such was too valuable for crafts
and weaponry to waste on coinage. Others thought that objects from the
sea, such as oysters, clams and starfish, would best honor the Tempest

rulers. Conversely, proponents of toraxen hides argued that it would be
sacrilege to remove such sea belongings from the domain of Hydros.

Finally, the people agreed upon shaped and stamped obsidian chips.
Obsidian is no longer used for other objects, it comes from the ground,
honoring earth, and can be imprinted with the icons of the other Titans to
show deference to them as well. Moreover, it is possible to confine to
government agencies the technology for heating raw obsidian and molding
the ore into chips. Thus they can enforce a necessary, though arbitrary,
value within city walls.

Those who cannot or will not craft for themselves use these obsidian chips
throughout the city as legitimate exchange for goods and services. Since
there are not many merchants in town, I have taken the liberty of
compiling a list of the few types of goods offered to the general public.
Fresh fish and vegatables can be purchased at the tavern. The weaver
produces fine apparel that is both functional and comfortable. Exquisite
jewelry can be purchased from the jeweler, who also produces some
glassware. Quality refreshment is available at the tavern, where herdsmen
bring torax chops and kith fillets. Finally, several of the craftsmen about
town are likely to sell tools of their various trades.

WEAPONS AND ARMOR

As any member of the militia is sure to admit, finding good weapons and
armor is extremely important. Even though the Zealan raids ended some
time ago, there is always need for arms to protect against the wilds of nature.
The weaponsmith forges and sells all sorts
of swords, axes, maces and hammers, in
addition to a wide assortment of armor
and shields. However, being a metal-
worker, the smith rarely sells lighter
forms of protection. Fortunately for those
who have taken an oath to police and
protect the city, the current captain of
the guard crafts armor from toraxen
hides, and has been known to offer his

wares for sale upon request.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

onvedidmy BESTIARY

DOMESTICATED CREATURES
Kith

Although they are large, multicolored
quadrupeds, kith bear a remarkable ta
resemblance to the common insect. The
major difference between the kith and
what some consider to be their smaller
cousins is size. At full maturity, a kith’s
head easily reaches the waist of a man.
A few may grow even larger.

tit I

seat
Tht

Being omnivorous by nature, kith tend
to live on the various plant life found
throughout the land, though they
prefer denser flora. Domestic kith are de-venomed and de-fanged at birth,
feral kith are far more dangerous, often rearing up on their abdomens to
strike with poisoned fangs.

 

Kith excretions come in the form of silky strands, which are woven together
to make fine clothing and linens. The finer weaves of kith silk make
excellent canvases, for the paints adhere well to the fibrous material. In
addition, the meat taken from the kith’s abdomen and thorax is quite tasty,
and many herdsmen raise kith solely for the sustenance they provide.

Torax

Large, slow reptiles, toraxen are the staple of the herdsman’s stock. They
are usually brown in color, though some have dark brown or dark gray
spots. Their heads are broad and flat, filled more with bone and muscle
than brain. Half as tall as a man and usually docile, the torax is particularly
strong for its size, often able to knock down trees in one angry charge.
Setting its head down, the torax charges victims and then snaps with its
bone-crushing jaws. Their tough hide is thickest around the legs and back,
making them especially difficult to
damage in these areas.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

The tremendous strength of a torax
makes it an excellent dray beast; able to
carry great loads for a long amount of
time. In addition, their thick skin
makes excellent leather, which is usable
as clothing, armor and even temporary
shelters. ‘Torax meat is a staple food,
whether served fresh as chops or dried

 

 

CREATURES OF THE WILDS
Changeling

Changelings are, indeed, a curious species. As they are shapeshifters, it is
difficult to describe their true form. However, there is one shape that is
apparently available to all changelings — or at least in all of those
encountered thus far. In that form,
they appear much like short,
disfigured and disproportioned men.
The changelings’ movements seem
jerky and erratic, yet the creatures
seem to be in control of their actions.

In battle, the changeling assumes the
shapes of its opponent or flora! In
these forms, the changeling has the
strengths and abilities of these other
creatures, including any toxins they
might be able to employ. In what
must be assumed is its natural form,
the changeling bounces about the area and then suddenly leaps at its
opponent with it huge tooth-filled maw opened widely. No one has had the
opportunity to learn exactly what it is that allows a changeling to shapeshift
or what makes it act as it does, for it fights viciously to the death.
Moreover, the creature disappears when it dies, making study impossible.

Troll

Trolls are large, lumbering bipedal
creatures, standing half again as tall as a
man. Their skin color ranges from a
pale green to an olive or tan, and they
wear little in the way of clothing. Trolls
move quite slowly, as if they must first
decide where to place each foot before
taking a step — though anyone who has
watched a troll move through a small
community, stepping on whatever is
underfoot, knows better than to think a
troll is careful. There are those who
speculate that trolls are the offshoot of
an ancient tribe of particularly evil and
stupid Zealans, though none of the
ancient tomes in Tenebrae support that
theory.

 

Trolls fight poorly, being so slow and bulky. However, their solid strength
means certain death for most who are careless enough to be struck. All
trolls use clubs, usually pulled from dead vegetation, though even their
powerful fists are enough to deliver a tremendous blow.

 

Seeker

The seeker is nothing more than an
abomination of nature. One large eye
floats about connected to a huge,
snapping mouth via a thick red
membrane. It is hoped that this
creature is the result of a magical
concoction, but others claim that

seekers are the living remains of the aM qe
5 2 St LPORRAR
I estroyer, as foretold by the one who / ; OX)
called himself the Guardian. A NS

The seeker seems to be neither
herbivore nor carnivore — no one has
ever seen it eat. The creature simply hovers about until it sights a target and
then launches into a furious assault of gnashing teeth. Yet no scholar has
ever been able to explain the seeker’s sole purpose of wanton destruction. It
does not eat, and yet nothing eats it. Even in death the seeker mocks other
life, exploding into a myriad of sharp bone and cartilage that can be fatal to
those caught within the radius of its devastating blast.

 

UNDEAD AND SUPERNATURAL CREATURES

Aerial Servant

Many people who die before they finish important tasks become spirits
bound to the welfare of others. Unlike ghosts, for whom the Titans have no
use, aerial servants function as messengers and assistants to Stratos.
Moreover, aerial servants do not possess the same dark gray appearance of
their counterparts, the ghosts, seeming instead to be made up of simple
currents of air.

Aerial servants do not attack others, whether they are living or otherwise.
However, they are usually loyal to the Theurgists who summon them,
obeying their commands to the best of their abilities. Some say that aerial
servants can affect the objects they touch, temporarily changing the objects
into air currents as well. This way, the aerial servant is able to transport
otherwise solid objects through the smallest wall chinks and such.

 

 

Daemon

Those consumed by flame, either in life
or death, or are slain by another
daemon, become servants and warriors
for the Lord of Flame and his followers.
Daemons are bipedal creatures with
mottled and scaly skin, sporting sharp
claws and talons. Atop their heads are
two horns, while coarse brown fur
covers their legs.

 

These hideous beasts are terrible tools
of destruction. With their powerful
arms and sharp fangs and claws, they
rend their victims with razor-like ability. According to the few witnesses
who have seen a daemon attack, the victims scream of the burning pain
that comes from each strike, and legend maintains that daemons can even
hurl destructive balls of flame. As fire is their primary tool, daemons seem

 

immune to the effects of flame themselves, and their thick scales make
them nearly impervious to the common blade.

Ghost

Ghosts, also known as wraiths, are the
disembodied spirits of those who died
so tragically that even the Titans have
no use for them. They appear as twisted
shapes of gray floating above the
ground. Tied to the general location of
their demise, ghosts rarely travel far in
search of victims. They consume life
forces to give them strength. Ghosts
have complete control over their
visibility, often remaining invisible
until prey is near enough to scare.

 

Feeding on the spirits of the living, wraiths attack with a draining touch
that leaves the victim weak of body and will. Armor is useless against their
attack, and weapons without some sort of enchantment cannot hurt them.
Legend claims that some of the Necromantic magics may affect a ghost, but
I doubt there is any evidence to support the supposition. Note that a
ghost’s non-corporeal nature permits it to access many areas sealed to
ordinary folk.

Ghoul

Ghouls are the animated corpses of the recently dead. Wearing nothing
more than the clothing in which they were interred, ghouls — or zombies —
are extremely slow in both thought and action. Unlike skeleton warriors, the
ghouls’ function is far less oriented towards combat, and they begin their
service as soon as they make their way to the Mountain King’s domain.

 

However, when sacred areas such as the
cemetery are disturbed, ghouls are there
to confront the trespasser. Fortunately
for the perpetrator, movement for
ghouls is extremely difficult and
painful, rendering them poor
combatants. An ironic twist to the
ghouls’ nature is that they consume the
flesh of their prey, thus making it
impossible for the victims ever to reach
Lithos and serve him.

Minion of the Lurker

The Tempests tell us that those whose
bodies fall dead in the water, whether by drowning or other means,
tragically face service not with Lithos, but with Hydros, the Lurker. Little
is known about the vile minions, for they do not walk upon the land and
no one has dared to enter the Lurker’s domain to view them up close. The
few glimpses that have been seen reveal a large, fish-like head filled with a
row of sharp teeth. It is assumed that the transformation into this
disgusting beast takes some time, though how much is unknown.

 

There is no record of anyone surviving a direct encounter in the water with
a minion, though some of the fishing folk have managed to avoid the
creatures by remaining in their boats. It is unknown whether minion
victims are consumed or dragged deep below the waves to become minions
themselves.

Skeleton Warrior

The remains of warriors from ages past, skeletons are the servants of Lithos
and the Necromancers who follow him. Their body and spirits, passed to
the Mountain King during interment, are held in waiting until needed.
However, they still carry with them the accouterments of their fighting
days: axes, swords, shields, armor and

Ul ) i i so forth.

Though dead, these animated skeletons
are extremely agile and strong, often
felling a man before he can even strike.
They are brainless, yet seem to retain
much of the fighting skill they
possessed in life. Skeletons attack only
with their ancient weapons, which are
oft times filthy with disease-ridden
decay. As they are already dead and
serve only a single function, skeleton
warriors attack relentlessly until
destroyed.

 

 

 

 

MAGIC. £z =

 

ompiling this information took considerably more
ts effort than I first expected. The project began at first
as idle curiosity — I merely wanted to know more about
spellcasting. I contacted the leader of each of the four types
of magic — Necromancy, Tempestry, Theurgy and Sorcery —
and requested that they convey what information they
could to me. The Theurgists and Necromancer complied
readily. The Tempest responded via her seneschal, who
informed me that Our Lady Mordea was occupied with too
many “important” matters to concern herself with my
trivia. Equally frustrating, the Master Sorcerer was quite
reluctant to reveal much about spells of Fire, only sending
what he did after becoming completely assured I was up to
no nefarious plotting.

Fortunately, Mythran knows quite a lot about magic and
spells, as I suspected, and was extremely helpful in filling
in the gaps left by Lady Mordea and Malchir. Indeed, I
learned from Mythran that he, himself, has acquired the
ability to cast snippets of the other types of magic. Though
I do not mistrust his words, I do think it strange that he
mentions reagents for his spells the likes of which I have
never seen. Nevertheless, what follows 1s Mythran’s

explanation of magic in his own words.

 

A TREATISE
by Mythran the Thaumaturge

My years of research in the field of magic have led me to the conclusion
that all magic is simply the manifestation of a being’s will, superimposed
upon reality, through the means of etheric emanations. Furthermore, I
propose that such emanations are truly limited only by the imagination and
willpower of the entity in question. :

Certain rituals and words can assist the caster in visualizing the desired
effect, just as certain physical objects can lend power, stability and shape to
the caster’s will. These props are not always necessary for beings of
considerable power or intellect, but are useful for most spellcasters.

Following is a detailed analysis of the styles of spellcrafting that I have been
able to observe in this world — Necromancy, the rituals of death;
Tempestry, the power of the Water and storms; Theurgy, the discipline of
attuning the spirit; Sorcery, the craft of destruction; and what I call
Thaumaturgy, my personal study of magic.

A WorD ON CASTING

All spells, save the seemingly innate abilities of the Tempests, require a
ritual of some sort before casting. The rituals, or props as I called them
earlier, are each of varying duration, and sometimes are performed long
before the actual spell is cast. In addition, the rituals all require from one to
three of the following components: spell books, foci or reagents.

Effectively, spell books are used as sources for spell formulae. These books
describe the rituals, foci or reagents necessary to cast the spells, as well as
explaining the results of success and, sometimes, the results of failure.

Foci are material items used to bind and release magical energy. Sometimes
they do nothing more than enhance the caster’s ability to concentrate, that
is, focus on his or her spell. Other foci store the energy in the form of
charges, allowing the caster to prepare
much of the spell beforehand and then
simply release the energy when necessary.
At the very least, foci serve to channel the
etheric waves into usable power.

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Finally, reagents are the disposable
components of casting. They are natural
materials consumed when the spell is cast.
Sometimes the spell caster scatters the
reagents about the affected area, while
other times they are simply mixed together
in precise proportions.

 

 

NECROMANCY

Within all living things is a magical energy or life-force.
However, once the life has passed from a body, a by-
product of the life-force, emitted as etheric waves,
remains inside. Lithos, the Titan of Earth, imbues those
of his choice with the insight and fortitude to have some
power over death and Earth.

The focus of a Necromantic spell is a small pouch filled
with the reagents required to cast the spell. These
reagents are easily obtainable as they are bits and pieces
of the land and of those who once lived upon it.

 

REAGENTS

Reagent Purpose Notes

Blood Movement/ The essence of life, reft from the

Animation body, serves as a reminder of
mortality.

Bone Summoning/ The source of blood is also,

Communication — strangely enough, the source of
the will, and remembers the life
it once embraced.

Wood Preservation/ Almost ageless, a time-aided tree

Binding can be stronger than the hardest
rock.

Dirt Protection The plant grows from the womb
of the land, its roots deeply
embedded in the safety of soil.

Executioner’s Hood Death This fungus is black in hue, dark
in purpose and shaped like the
head-covering of its namesake.

Blackmoor Power This is an odd mixture of the
element of Earth and the
mysterious Blackrock.

RITUALS

MASK OF DEATH (Quas Corp)

By this ritual, the Necromancer may assume a state of near-death that will
appear as actual death. The Necromancer is completely cognizant, and can
dispel the effects at any time.

Reagents: Wood, Executioner’s Hood

 

CALL QUAKE (Kal Vas Ylem Por)
This ritual causes the very earth to rise up and heave.

Reagents: Blood, Bone, Wood, Blackmoor

DEATH SPEAK (Kal Wis Corp)

This ritual briefly returns a semblance of life to a deceased body and allows
the Necromancer to converse with the spirit of the once living. However, if
the being has not undergone certain preparations before death, this spell is
quite a painful experience, usually rendering, the subject incoherent.
Reagents: Blood, Bone

Rock FiesH (Rel Sanct Ylem)
With this ritual, the Necromancer gains an innate resistance to damage by
transforming the very flesh into a substance as strong as stone.

Reagents: Wood, Dirt

SUMMON DEAD (Kal Corp Xen)

This spell summons from the Earth a number of dead warriors to serve the
Necromancer as guardians. They are mindless, attacking anyone not
endowed with the power of Necromancy. Though it is possible to summon
armies of the walking dead, I have never seen more than one appear.

Reagents: Blood, Bone, Wood

OPEN GROUND (Des Por Ylem)

When cast near a tombstone, this ritual, under the guidance of a
Necromancer, shapes the ground and stone. Most often, however, it is
merely used to create a grave or open a weakened wall of rock.

Reagents: Blood, Blackmoor

CREATE GOLEM (In Ort Ylem Xen)

This spell calls up a creature made of Earth, generally in the shape of a
man, to perform the bidding of the caster. It follows a few terse commands,
usually understanding statements to retrieve or open things.

Reagents: Blood, Bone, Wood, Dirt, Blackmoor

WITHSTAND DEATH (Vas An Corp)

By means of this preparation ritual, the Necromancer returns from death
once (and only once), with all ailments removed and in full health.
Reagents: Wood, Dirt, Blackmoor

GRANT PEACE (In Vas Corp)

This potent ritual calls upon the bailiwick of the Necromancer, that being
death. The recipient, if the undead of Earth, instantly reverts to the lifeless
corpse it was before becoming animated. If cast upon the fully living, the life
force of the recipient is momentarily severed from the body, often resulting
in death, but in some instances, causing only temporary confusion.
Reagents: Executioner’s Hood, Blackmoor

 

 

 

 

TEMPESTRY

This power is purely and simply the ability to control
the Water and storms. It is an inherited trait, and
therefore little is known about it. We do know some of
the powers displayed to date by the ruling nobility of
Tenebrae. Since I do not know the acrual names of the
powers, I will merely list what I have observed.

POWERS OF TEMPESTRY

I have seen a trained Tempest walk upon the Water as if
upon dry land, breathe Water as easily as Air, create and
calm windy storms, still the turbulent seas, cause clouds

to skid across the sky with preternatural agility, and send

great bolts of lightning to strike those deemed unworthy
of life.

 

Note that the Tempest requires no components, foci or magical
incantations, as all etheric waves are amplified and channeled by Hydros,
the Titan of Water.

THEURGY

The Order of Enlightenment from which issued this
magical discipline believes that to purify oneself and
focus the inner energies of the mind eliminates the need
to find power in the world around. Therefore these
mages require no reagents of any sort.

However, in the process of becoming attuned to Stratos,
the Titan of Air, small silver tokens representing the
spells become necessary. These tokens are the doorways
to power for the Novice, unlocked by words of magic.
Once a monk has become an Adept, achieved
“enlightenment,” and then continued studies for several
more years, he or she will find the foci no longer
required and that the power flows from the mind of the
Theurgist unimpeded by physical restraints.

 

INVOCATIONS

DIVINATION Un Wis)

This invocation reveals the Theurgist’s location, time of day, day of the
week, and current month.

Focus: Sextant

HEALING Toucuy (In Mani)
This is a healing spell, affecting minor wounds.
Focus: Pointing Hand

 

AERIAL SERVANT (Kal Ort Xen)

This spell calls a whirling being of Air, which will accept the Theurgist’s
directives to manipulate or move any object. An unusual ability of this
creature is that it is able to move an object through solid obstacles, such as
walls and closed doors.

Focus: Arm Band

REVEAL (Ort Lor)

This spell releases a wave of energy that dispels all forms of invisibility
around the Theurgist. ;

Focus: Open Eye

RESTORATION (Vas In Mani)

This is a powerful invocation. It restores a living recipient to full health,
eliminating wounds, maiming or disease.

Focus: Open Hand

FADE FROM SIGHT (Quas An Lor)
As the name of this invocation states, the Theurgist becomes completely
invisible to the sight of nearly all mortal beings.

Focus: Closed Eye

AIR WALK (Vas Hur Por)

By means of this invocation, the Theurgist is capable of jumping a great
distance with the aid of the surrounding Air. I am told that this is cast the
first time without a focus, when the Theurgist leaps to Windy Point to
speak with Stratos.

Focus: Wings

HEAR TruTH (An Quas Lor)

This invocation reveals the truth to any lie spoken knowingly to the
Theurgist, as if the Air, itself, were unraveling the thread of the message.
Focus: Chain

INTERVENTION (In Sanct An Jux)

One of the most powerful abilities of the Theurgist is to call into existence
a wall of Air that blocks all damaging forces. While this spell can make the
mightiest sword blow feel like a tap, it will not prevent death from
immersion in lava or drowning in Water.

Focus: Fist

RESURRECTION (Vas An Corp)

‘The most powerful ability of the Order of Enlightenment is the ability to
restore life to the recently departed. However, the price for this ability is
eternal blindness. | am sure there must be an easier way, but my research has
yielded nothing worthwhile.

Focus: None but blindness and eternal life

 

 

 

SORCERY

Sorcerers deal in magic of Fire and destruction, having
long ago founded the Cabal that bound Pyros, the Titan
of Fire, to their wills. In doing so, they also garnered the
ability to call upon his servants, the daemons.

In the performance of Sorcery, one must use rituals,
reagents, foci, magical words and a specially designed
protective circle, called a pentacle or pentagram for the
five-pointed star confined within, The tremendous
powers of Pyros are released in great gouts of flame, and
only a trained Sorcerer would dare to call upon them.
Even then, the pentacle is required to keep the Sorcerer
from being consumed along with the reagents.

The Sorcerer places the spell’s focus at the pentagram’s
center, the candles at each point around the circle, and

the reagents near the candles, all while intoning the mystic words to shape
the unbound energies. When this ritual enchantment is done, the Sorcerer is
left with a charged (even multiply charged), glowing focus, suffused with the
power of the spell invoked. The spell can then be cast at any time.

REAGENTS
Reagent

Volcanic Ash

Pumice

Obsidian

Pig Tron

Brimstone

Daemon Bone

Purpose Notes

Flame The refuse of the volcano has the
property of creating the initial spark
of Fire.

Distance This rock, cast highest and farthest

from the volcano, retains the etheric
impetus built up in the flight.

Duration While seeming to be a fragile, easily
broken substance, it endures the heat
of the volcano.

Protection Iron’s hard yet versatile nature works
in protective Sorcery as no other
reagent can.

Power This is the rock that burns or, more
to the point in Sorcery, explodes. A
virtually limitless source of power
dwells within its etheric composition.

Summoning/ Having taken a hint from the Necro-

Binding mancers, the Cabal found that Bone
does, indeed, retain its tie to life. It is
even useful in the ritual of binding
when enough power is at hand. Dae-
monic forces are summoned and
controlled by use of this reagent.

 

SPELLCRAFT
EXTINGUISH (An Flam)

This spell douses any flame, save the very hottest.
Foci: Symbol, Wand, Rod or Staff

IGNITE Un Flam)

This spell lights the red and black candles placed around the pentagram.
Foci: Symbol, Wand, Rod or Staff

FLASH (Flam Por) :

By means of this spell, the Sorcerer can move from one visible place to
another without actually traversing the intervening space. After many years
of practice, a Sorcerer can even move to places visible not only to the eye,
but to memory as well.

Foci: Wand, Rod, Staff or Symbol*

FLAME Bott (In Ort Flam)
This spell shoots a bolt of fire from the caster, burning anything unlucky
enough to be the target of the Sorcerer's ire.

Foci: Wand, Rod, Staff or Symbol*

ENDURE HEAT (Sanct Flam)

This spell creates a glowing field that allows the Sorcerer to touch any non-
magical flame and remain unhurt. With this spell, a Sorcerer can even
endure the heat of lava if it is solid enough to walk upon.

Foci: Rod, Staff or Symbol*

Frre SHIELD (In Flam An Por)

With chis spell, flames come into existence encircling the Sorcerer. No
tangible creature except a daemon can pass through this flaming barrier,
including the Sorcerer. Anyone foolish enough to try is thrown back and
burned in the bargain.

Foci: Rod, Staff or Symbol*

ARMOR OF FLAMES (Vas Sanct Flam)
‘This spell bathes the Sorcerer in a corona of magical flames that ward off
all other Fires of magical nature, including those cast by another Sorcerer.

Foci: Rod, Staff or Symbol*

CREATE FIRE (In Flam Ylem)
At the casting of this spell, a fire erupts around the target. Those who are
foolish enough to remain in the blaze will continue to suffer damage until

they step out of the flames.
Foci: Staff or Symbol*

Expiosion (Vas Ort Flam)
This is much like the Flame Bolt spell, but with considerably larger and
more devastating effects.

Foci: Staff or Symbol*

 

 

SUMMON DAEMON (Kal Flam Corp Xen)

This ritual of binding will summon a daemon to attack one foe of the
Sorcerer's designation. The dangerous nature of this spell lies in the fact
that if no victim is specified as soon as the creature appears, the daemon
will attack the Sorcerer.

Foci: Daemon Talisman or Symbol*

BANISH DAEMON (An Flam Corp Xen)

As the name so plainly states, this spell will usually return a daemon to its
home in the Fire of the volcano. Unfortunately, even the most skilled
Sorcerers have been known to perform an unsuccessful banishment.

Foci: Daemon Talisman or Symbol*

CONFLAGRATION (Kal Vas Flam Corp Xen)

This is the most powerful ritual that the Sorcerer’s Cabal has revealed. If
any greater exists, only they know about it. By use of this spell, a malicious,
daemonic force of destructive nature manifests near the caster, where it
then commences to wreak savage destruction on all things near the
Sorcerer.

Foci: Daemon Talisman or Symbol*

*Note: As it is not the most stable focus for these spells, the Sorcerer’s
symbol of the pentagram will be able to retain only one charge.

 

 

TTHAUMATURGY

Thaumaturgy is the term I use to define the collection of
spells that I have learned over time. Put quite simply,
Thaumaturgy borrows and steals a bit from each of the
other magics, choosing the clear path of chaos rather
than becoming too well defined and stagnant. Much like
Sorcerers, | enchant items with the power of reagents
and the mind.

Any Thaumaturge who knows the business may craft
spells, scrolls, potions or various other implements of
magic. There is almost nothing that I cannot do through
the use of this form of magic, as it does not confine
itself to a style.

In Thaumaturgy, the foci are the actual spell books that contain the
formulae and references to the reagents required for the spell. In addition,
enchanted, single-use scrolls that require no other components can also be
used to cast spells. Most of the spells from the other forms of magic can be
distilled to their basics and put into scrolls and books as well — by a
Thaumaturge of sufficient skill, that is.

REAGENTS

These unusual reagents are used in combination with those from other disciplines.

Reagent
Eye of Newt

Bat Wing

Serpent Scale

Dragon Blood

Purpose Notes

Sight/ This aids a mage in focusing the
Knowledge inner eye within the mind.

Life/ The flesh, bone and blood found
Creatures in this structure serve as an

excellent lodestone to the
essence of life.
Destruction/ The poison in the mouth of
Separation this beast seeps into the flesh
and corrupts the scales, giving
them the magical ability to act
as‘a destructor of bonds.

Great Power So powerful is this creature that
the blood burns as if aflame.
Precise measurements of this are
wise, for too much and the
magic will go dangerously awry.

 

 

ENCHANTMENTS

CONFUSION BLAST (In Quas Wis)

This causes a release of etheric energies, inflicting no real physical damage,
but causing all combatants near the Thaumaturge to forget completely the
present combat.

Reagents: Eye of Newt, Bat Wing, Serpent Scale, Obsidian, Brimstone

SUMMON CREATURE (Kal Xen)

This highly variable spell magically calls a creature to the Thaumaturge’s
defense. The type of creature that appears is not automatically under the
control of the caster, depending upon creature’s vicinity and the caster’s
power.

Reagents: Bat Wing, Pumice, Obsidian, Bone

CALL DESTRUCTION (Kal Vas Grav Por)
This spell causes bolts of lightning and destructive explosions to cascade
around the Thaumaturge, unerringly striking any visible foes.

Reagents: Serpent Scale, Dragon Blood, Ash, Pig Iron, Executioner’s
Hood

DEVASTATION (In Vas Ort Corp)

This spell, first formulated by what could only have been an insane mage, is
designed to disrupt the very fabric of life throughout the world. All
creatures and beings, save the crazed Thaumaturge who casts this spell, face
instant eradication. As far as I can tell, there has never been a successful
casting of this spell.

Reagents: Bat Wing, Serpent Scale, Dragon Blood, Pig Iron,
Executioner’s Hood, Blackmoor, Brimstone

METEOR SHOWER (Kal Des Flam Ylem)

Rocks, summoned from unseen heights, cascade in a fiery torrent upon
friends and foes alike — only the caster remains untouched.

Reagents: Ash, Dirt, Serpent Scale, Brimstone, Blackmoor

 

 

 

hough I had initially intended this work to act as a grand

reference for future scholars, I realize now that much of this is
too inconsequential for such a treatise. It is the result of my
fascination with people of the present as well as the past. To those
students who cannot use the dated words within this text, I hope
at least that I have provided a little insight to the times as they
are now, so that historical essays compiled long after I have gone
to serve the Mountain King may benefit from these idle
observations. To the sages of the next generations, I offer my
salutations and best wishes. This, my small gift of knowledge, is
the greatest offering I can give.

 

ree

GS

S Sie ;
Naas

Bee

aoe

a

ey
ERE 2

=
Gee

nm

 
