 

 

Ac} hist?

 

Bye [34 / ucee)

Lost Wele
Woatec Lombre
Moke S Ome os alles
=teshe-——. Ha
Fore +e alles oA.
Elesh-ve atid
Map a

Sponge O- req ens

 

Lost Vale Art List
v2.5
6 - 28 - 94

, Character Meshes:
ID Lord British
Ezrekel (taken from Mythran mesh/skeleton)
uy Zealans: man (single mesh, multiple maps to individualize them -- type and amount of clothing, etc.)

} woman (single mesh, multiple maps to individualize them -- type and amount of clothing, etc.)
a> child (single mesh, multiple maps to individualize them -- type and amount of clothing, etc.)
aby ( / Zealan God 1, speaking (from Ancient Ones' mesh/skeleton)

Zealan God 2, speaking (from Ancient Ones' mesh/skeleton)
/ \_.Zealan God 3, speaking (from Ancient Ones' mesh/skeleton)
i BS ( Zealan God 1, encased in resin
Zealan God 2, encased in resin
\ Zealan God 3, encased in resin
ty \.
Lf “hy \ Harpy
\ Water Zombie (import Dicko's art)

. re Bi ieces Architecture]:
Cloud World- take Bob's red stone architecture and turn it white and gold.

Cloud-like terrain

1 Collapsing ground
/. a Y, —. Avatar dying in cloud terrain

Ly Items:
ab y aoe Shades (Flossie & Snori)
« Pillar of Fire~
° Pillar of Earth
Pillar-of Water—

“Talisman of Fire
ly | Talisman of Earth |
ae . Talisman of Water \
, Talisman of Air
“Magic-Frisbee half (like Zealan Ceremonial Shield)
Magic-Frisbee-other half-(like Zealan Ceremonial Shield)
~ Magic-Frisbee whole (like Zealan_CeremonialShield)
Bottomless-Bag-
\ LZ d ——- Test Tree/plant/fruit
2 Ke Damn Puzzle ?

Ti) Falling debris

Yay Py an Tees +eere
~~ ~~ _Gumps:
—Bottomless-bag-->

if Sb?! |
Vad lew Oo] Waker Sen

l v4

ROS

 

Author: Brian Martin at Origin
Date: 5/10/94 4:32 PM
Priority: Normal
TO: Andrew Morris
TO: Sheri Graner
TO: Lisa Smith
TO: Micael Priest
Subject: Re: vale art needs as i see em’. corrections/additions welco
wane nena nnn nn anne nnn nnn nn nana = Message Contents -------------------------------
I'll need for yall to fill in a description of each character and a list of
each separate activity/animation needed for each character.
Also any more stuff that i didn get on this list needs to be added now. Tanx.

Character Meshes:
Lord British
—~-Mythranfstealim-whole-from-u8]
Ezrekel
Stay Zealans: man
woman
__child-—~
Go Zealans:man
woman .
i \
Amora speaking! Wrong names, but yes, three Zealan gods are aie
Amora in resin A
Odion speaking
Odion in resin 4
X—

Apathos speaking

Apathos in resin
Flossie
Snori

Harpy ay
Water Zombie -—~ Po \ y 2 >

P COMA,

/ Terrain Pieces[Architecture]:
Cloud World- take Bob's red stone architecture and turn it white and gold.

Items

Fallen Stalactites ilready have ' ‘em\
Gulgeron's body (already have him, (dead body) >
Journal{already have it, (just a plain ol' book) * )
Pillar of Fire

Pillar of Earth

Pillar of Water

Pillar of Air

Talisman of Fire

Talisman of Earth

Talisman of Water

Talisman of Air

Magic Frisbee half

Magic Frisbee other half

Blackrock Shield

Bottomless Bag

Ny

 

Test Stump
Damn Puzzle

ok at GO

Ali the old ones[steal'em whole from u8] plus.....
Bottomless bag

 

Ultima 8/Lost Vale Bug Report

 

 

Name: Date:
Machine Name: Version:
Started testing at: Bug Status: Map Location:
Crashed at: New 0) Dup O OldVer O
Bug Type: Error Code: Would this bug keep the

ARO CDO CRO
DT OFTOGLO
HG ONMOSGO

General Bug Information:

 

 

 

 

game from maintaining
the Origin Brand status?
YES O NOO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Is this bug repeatable?

How many times can you repeat it?

How important is it to you to have this bug fixed?

Why?

Rate it (1-10) __

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE LOST VALE

Sheri Graner / 3 \y, poze O
Character List - ea ) —_
Version 1.0 aa bt<
05/17/94 -

Character List for the Lost Vale

Because of the scarcity of water, the infertility of the land and the difficulty of finding food,
people are too busy trying to survive to engage in other means of vocation.

Ezrekal -- SHERI

Group One
Female elder -- LISA

descendant of Flossie's family

Older sister of vet,

hates other group because moonshiner sells liquor to her brother
carries torch of hatred for the other group,

Male "Vietnam Vet" (PTS syndrome) -- SHERI
brother to elder
tried to climb cliff, fell, should have died, didn't. Having trouble dealing with
the fact he lived and best buddy died. Drinks to cover it. Random generates whether
drunk or not, conversation changes drastically
essentially a walking death wish
> Hunter --.

€
a
S\near
marrieé mer

comes from generations of hunters

remembers stories her grandfather told about bigger game, wishes for bigger game
harpies would be good challenge, a story to add, but she has to think of her family
loves husband dearly but can't understand why he is happy mucking about in the mud.

   
  
 
 
  

   
 

Male child of hunter and farmer
This kid goes everywhere

Male elder -- SHERI
, lost his wife. his daughter is the spitting image of his wife.

Blames the other tribe for the loss of his wife.
neglecting some duties as leader due to his depression
terribly overprotective of daughter

"teched" female inventor -- LISA

 

"trail blazer"

a positive voice

"Damn it, let the feud go.” attitude, aggravated with both tribes for their continuation to
sit in the ashes and wail about the gods being gone, Feels must move forward to achieve
anything. There is a better way.

"Can't sit and wait for gods that never existed." Atheist.

Invention ‘4!

Male, runs moonshine still, -- LISA
Handicapped, can't work in fields so found a way to survive
If not found way to survive, would have been left out on the rocks for the Harpies
Opportunist, takes inventors words and twists them. He's supplying a commodity for
a demand. "Just trying to make a living."

Female, farmer -- SHERI
€ always done it this way,

Because inventor doesn't believe, thinks when gods do come back, they will punish all
the zealans.

Doesn't trust new technology.

Wishes they would throw inventor out with Ezrekal.

Preaches to PC about the gods, (while sabotaging inventor)

‘Female-child-of elder (mother died climbing cliffs)
never-far-from daddy

 

bark("Eh? What? A Pagan! A Pagan here? NO! Get goné)}™.

 

return;

= >Since we're using a different structure, we might want to consider using shorter, choppier
sentences (e.g., "Leave me you must, or call upon the Ancient Ones I will. From my sight they will
blast you!") Just a thought < ==APM

bark("Ezrekal Dae name is. a itil

Funny, not iE a Zales you loo o
different you speak. Ifmotpa,Pag | are,
askList+ = < <"I am from Brittania." " > >;
yelledAtAvatar = false;

  
  

  
  

}

= > This still seems a little hard to follow. Instead of alway using the passive verb, why not use
the main verb, or the active (e.g., The mark of the Zealans upon you I did not see.") Again, just a
thought, but it seems more clear to me. < = =APM

  

= >This still seems awkward to me. I thai we're e stil beving eouble with the Stine, Why
don' t we meet to make sure we're all on the same wavelength. It's quite possible I am the only one
who is confused. < = =APM
When occured that did, rush to the High Priestess the
people did and demanded an answer from the Ancient Ones
she get on how the battles to stop. Answer her the Ancients
would not. Accused her of lying the people did. Out of
their village her they ran and come back they forbade her
until communicated with the Ancient Ones she had. Many,
many years ago that was. Still for the
Ancients to speak I wait as my mother did and her mother
before her.");
askList-= < <"Why have you been away from your

people?" > >;

 

Serene Spon er. 6 hy ae ne ki aj geome SARE Yate 5 Amn Romine Ga andl Mat ea laa ge te ul peg RS UI AGES

 
 

/ |
| Lo
Ai meee.

! , 7 ( ! i 2Q Iwi i pot
9064 4 Taeon ales | 1 hin Mle Ferd
ee Ve; tele 2h AV MCE ogni b f Vigan ) ge A bes)

 

ng

 

2
60 ew 4, aegecal datice Ld)

Ens
fi Bex. ) gr § MEM

0, faclcrne

   

a eS eure! |

AT oD he cg Asc tak

 

 

 

Masic bese

 

lestvele h 104

Cltmb by‘ {22
Cloud ‘y L 13 Chis
S lac ips TY

 

PRELIMINARY

The Lost Vale

Ultima 8: Pagan
Add-In Module

 

 

 

 

IBM-PC
Why Origin?

1.0 High Concept

The Lost Vale is an add-in disk for Ultima VIII that increases game play via additional
story-lines, new monsters, additional areas to explore, and greater powers (i.e., magic items and
increased attributes) to help the Avatar conquer the Titans.

2.0 Why this is an Origin Product
a) As an add-in to U8, the target market is the players of the original Ultima VIII game.
b) Good sales vs. production cost potential, in addition to increasing the sales potential of
U8

3.0 Resources
The core development team involves only a few Origin employees, all Ultima
experienced.

4.0 Product Overview

The Lost Vale is an add-in module designed to lengthen the playing time and excitement
of Ultima VIII. The module adds approximately five new maps, a new culture (i.e., additional
NPCs), two new monsters, and an additional story-line that leads to new magic items and
increased attributes for the Avatar.

5.0 Story

Ages ago during the Zealan-Pagan wars, Lithos and Hydros, the Titans of Earth and
Water, worked to entomb the bulk of the Zealan communities within the valley that was their
homeland, separating them from their warriors. To further prevent escape or entry, all four
Titans banded together to forge impenetrable magical seals, all contained with a hidden dungeon.

Trapped within their Lost Vale, inbreeding and a dearth of food and water have left the
Zealans weak. Relatively recent events have caused a rift, dividing the proud race into two
factions. Having heard nothing of their once powerful deities in far too long, they have banished
their shaman, speaker to the gods, and abandoned all hope of producing further surviving
generations.

But Lord British, speaking through a mystical channel created by Nystul, pierces the
Guardian's veil and speaks momentarily to the Avatar, bidding him to learn more of the ancient
race of Zealans from the mage called Mythran. Mythran directs the Avatar to the studies of other
explorers, revealing the probable location of magical seals that lead to the Lost Vale.

1 06/07/94

 

PRELIMINARY

Once in the dungeon, the Avatar must face many perils to find the seals and use the
power of each one's antithesis against it. At that point the Avatar must use his magic of
necromancy -- for the last time until departing the Vale -- to enter the Zealan homeland.

Once again on unfamiliar ground, the Avatar learns that the Titans hold little in the way
of magical power in the Vale, and therefore so does he. Inside the Vale the Avatar encounters
many physical and mental challenges, all which must be overcome to reunite the warring factions
not only with each other, but also with their shaman. Only then can the Avatar free the ancient
Zealan deities and gain of their wisdom and power.

6.0 Technical Overview
IBM-PC 486 (and 100% compatibles)/33, 4Mb RAM, 320x200x256 VGA with full
sound board support. Mouse required.

7.0 Audience
Like the original U8, the game will appeal to the existing Ultima fans, and hopefully
attract those who had fun with games like Prince of Persia, but have never tried Ultimas.

8.0 Deal
$2? budget, planned ship in the middle/end of August 1994 (3rd quarter)

9.0 Risks
The high sales of Ultima VIII and the relatively low cost required to produce this add-in
module make The Lost Vale a good, low-risk product.

10.0 Status

The implementation phase is in full swing. With all of the design completed, work on the
Lost Vale is in the first third of visible progress. With the consent of QA, The Lost Vale should
be in BETA in six to eight calendar weeks.

2 06/07/94

 

THE LOST VALE
Plot Synopsis

1. The PC receives a magical communiqué from Lord British. LB tells
the Avatar that Nystul has managed to deliver his message across the
dimensions. LB tells the PC that Britannia needs the Avatar, and that,
through intense research, Nystul has determined that there is a race of
people on Pagan who can help the Avatar overcome the Titans and
escape. LB sends the PC to Mythran for more information about the
people of the Lost Vale.|Also, some mention should be made by LB of
the status of Britannia Isn't the Guardian suppose to be plundering the
place during the events in Pagan?

2. The PC goes/returns to Mythran and asks about the ancient race.
Mythran explains that he received a vision from a strange man from
another world. The man in the vision told Mythran of one who- would
come seeking knowledge of the Zealans. This vision convinces
Mythran to tell the PC about the Zealans despite the fact that doing so
might possibly incur the wrath of the titans. We recommend that
Mythran give the PC the ‘bag of endless reagents’ at this point in the
plot. / (

3. Mythran tells the PC about a man named Galjeron who once
searched for the Zealans. Mythran has not see this man in a very long
time. However, Mythran tells the PC that Galjeron could most likely be
found on the other side of a huge set of double doors which are in a
cavern in the Plateau. We suggest having the Avatar compile a list of
reagents in order to magically contact Galjeron (who is, at this point,
presumed to be alive). After doing so, the player watches a set-scene in
which Galjeron's spirit appears and delivers some information about
the Lost Vale and the key to the door. We could use the ghost art for
Galjeron, thus saving art space. Also, Mythran could suggest that
Galjeron's motive for seeking the Zealans was driven by his desire to
defeat the Titans and become the Ether Titan.

 

 

4. Inside of the doors, the PC finds a dead body which turns out to be
Galjeron. There should be some sort of guardian within this room.
Something that actually killed Galjeron. As it turns out, Galjeron kept a
journal which described his efforts to find the Lost Vale, and explain
his goal of Titanhood. The journal also mentions that in order to get to
the Lost Vale, one must penetrate the barrier erected by the Titans by
finding and using four magic gemstones, each of which represents an
element.

5. So off goes the PC into a dungeon which is divided into four parts.
Each part of the dungeon corresponds to a different elemental theme.
We need an NPC here--perhaps a guardian left behind by the Titans. If
we can't afford one agent for each Titan, we could create one
interesting NPC who was chosen because all four Titans found him
suitable. This multi-elemental agent could show up for a couple of set
scenes throughout the elemental dungeons attempting to thwart the
Avatar. He could, if defeated, escape and later show up again to battle
the Avatar (see para 15).

6. Once the PC has gone through all four parts of the dungeon, he is
faced with a blockade of elemental forces. Four pillars, Earth, Air, Fire,
and Water block the path to the Lost Vale. If the PC has all of the
gemstones, he can use the opposite power on each pillar to destroy all
of the pillars (ex: fire coupon on water pillar). Will this area have a
teleporter pad in it so the player can return here quickly if he later uses
the recall item to leave the Lost Vale?

7. When the PC finds the Lost Vale, he finds a place that was once lush
and beautiful, but is now barren and desolate. Barren is sometimes
boring. I hope we're planning on using some cool fallen ruins here and
there. The once-unified Zealans have separated into two factions, each
living near one of the two sources of water left in the vale. Ezrakel, the
High Priestess of the Zealan religion has been shunned by the two
communities, and the communities are involved in a destructive blood
feud. When encountered, the high priestess will only agree to meet with

 

the PC if he comes to her escorted by a representative from *both* of
the rival factions. (She says this with the hope that a stranger might be
able to help the two groups comes to terms.)

8. The two factions are hostile toward each other, and highly suspicious
toward the PC.

If the PC approaches the first group, they will ask him to pass a

est in order to gain their trust. This group will ask the PC to killa
particularly nasty monster who has made a lair near the group's primary
mushroom garden. (This would be a good place to introduce one of the
new Lost Vale monsters--a pack of harpies, for instance.) As a reward,
they will offer him an item of value (which they have recently stolen
from the rival faction).

If the PC approaches the second group, they will react in a more

hostile manner, attacking and capturing the PC. As a prisoner, the
Avatar will be offered a chance to prove his worth to the group by
recovering the item recently stolen by their rivals. This group of
Zealan's will only believe his story (including the fact that he is not
actually from Pagan) if he passes this test and brings back the item
(which he can do by fulfilling the quest issued by the first group).

Only after he has satisfied both quests will the groups agree to

send escorts along with the PC to visit Ezrakel. (This does not mean
they have made up, of course.)

: —

9. Upon finding Ezrakel, PC will learn that she has been shunned by
her former flock because she can no longer bring the Zealan gods to
speak to their followers. She says that could she speak to the Gods, she
could cure him, but the Shield of the Ancients has been broken and the
Gods no longer speak. She goes on to tell the PC that a time ago, before
she was old and leathery, the Pagan titans attacked the Zealan gods
during the Great Council. (The Great Council being a gathering of all
Zealans once a year.) During this attack, the Zealan gods were sealed in
a shrine. Ezrakel attempted to reach the only gods that had not yet
arrived at the Great Council, Love, Hate, and Apathy, but in the attack
on the gods, the Shield of the Ancients was broken.

 

10. The Shield of the Ancients is essential for communicating with the
gods. Whenever a person talks to the Zealan gods, that person needs
some special item which is associated with the gods in order to talk to
them (i.e. the ancient Zealan Shield in the Shrine of the Ancient Ones).
Ezrakel tells the PC she tried many things to repair the Shield of the
Ancients, but nothing worked. Then one night, the two halves of the
Shield of the Ancients were stolen while she slept. The Zealans, who
were already unhappy with her for being unable to repair the Shield of
the Ancients, turned against her completely and drove her out.

11. The Zealans began a search for the thief and found that two young
men, Snori and Hoskuld, were missing. These names sound Norse, and
seem incongruous with the rest of the Pagan/Zealan names. Snori's
family accused Hoskuld of stealing the Shield of the Ancients, and says
that Snori simply went after the thief. They feel that Snori must have
been murdered by Hoskuld. Hoskuld's family says the opposite; that
Snori stole the halves of the Shield of the Ancients, and Hoskuld went
after him. This feud divided the tribe in half, and the two sides have
been involved in a "blood feud" ever since.

12. Ezrakel says that only the Gods can aid PC in his attempt to defeat
the Titans and escape Pagan. To gain their assistance, the PC must
climb the cliffs and reach the city in which the gods once lived. The
high priestess also explains that reaching the gods would also greatly
help in reuniting the people of the Lost Vale.

13. The PC scales the cliffs which lead to the City of the Gods. In times
past, no Zealan would ever dare to try to reach this place. However,
since the gods have abandoned them, some Zealans have attempted to
scale the cliffs in order to discover why the gods left them. In the
process of scaling the cliffs, the PC finds the bones of many dead
Zealans. The PC encounters a new monster, the Harpie. This is another
familiar old Britannia monster. Couldn't we come up with a cool new
Pagan monster? This was one of the strengths of U8; monsters like the
seeker were very innovative. Has the harpy art already been done?

 

17. The PC and Ezrakel must then break through the wall which leads
into the shrine. What if instead of a barrier, we use a guardian which
can only be slain by someone bearing the intact shield? This would
allow the Avatar to accomplish what could not be done by the Zealans
before. It might even be a good idea to reuse the multi-elemental agent
of the Titans who was guarding the elemental dungeons.

18. Once inside of the shrine, the PC finds that the gods are encased in
a magical shell. Could we recycle the translucent blue fields from the
journey to Lithos portion of U8. These were cool, and doing this would
save art space. Ezrakel calls upon the new found strength of the
rejoined people and, in a set scene, break the gods free. The Gods give
the PC a symbolic representation of the rejoined shield. This comes in
the form of a really powerful shield which maxes out the PC's armor
rating. This would also alleviate some of the weight management
problems experienced by players, since it would allow them to discard
the rest of their armor in favor of the great shield.

19. Since the gods have been released, they restart the flow of water
within the Lost Vale. The land is restored and the blood feud is ended.
In the final Lost Vale set-scene, the gods further explain to the PC that
if he defeats all four Titans he may be able to achieve such a position
himself. (The Zealans would, after all, be strengthened by any
reduction of the Titans' power.) U8 overall would be aided by _
something of an explanation here concerning the weird endgame,
which many customers have expressed puzzlement over. The gods
might also offer some insight into what is happening in Britannia (as a
teaser for U9).

Note 1: What this needs is something to give it an added dimension,
make it less linear. I suggest adding an NPC who lives apart from
either faction. This person would at first feign indifference toward the
Zealans, but would then quiz the PC concerning the state of their blood
feud (specifically how close they are to reuniting). Later in the plot, the
NPC (who was placed in the Vale by one or all of the Titans for the
sole purpose of preventing the Zealans from reuniting) could show up

 

and attempt to stop the PC outright. When the PC kills this agent of the
Titans, one of two things could happen. Either A) one of the Titans
could make an appearance (since the U8 subdirectory already contains
Titan art) to claim the agent's body and explain things, or B) in a set-
scene the NPC could curse the Avatar and explain his involvement
before dying.

Note 2: We strongly recommend that U8's spellcasting not be removed
from Lost Vale. Players would be greatly disappointed by the loss of
this aspect of the game. The add-in would be weakened by the removal
of spellcasting.

Note 3: We strongly recommend that the player be allowed to travel
back forth from Pagan to the Lost Vale. This will cause the player to
perceive ‘the Lost Vale' as a longer, less linear add-in.

Note 4: [f you are going to include any new magic weapons, we
recommend using the Bonecrusher hammer mentioned in U8. Many
customers have inquired about the location of this nonexistent hammer.
If some new art was dedicated to the creation of a really
unconventional hammer (with another cool effect in the vein of Slayer
or Flamesting) it would add to the value of the add-in greatly.

Note 5: We suggest placing a small ruin and labeling it the Birthplace
of Moriens. This would not be a difficult thing to do, and would please
a great number of customers.

 

THE LOST VALE
Lost Vale Team
Plot plan

version 1.1

05-09-94 \\ . oe

pave
1. Upon installing the disk, the PC sees a vision of Lord British. LB tells the PC that Nystul, his fo
magician, has managed to break through the Guardian's veil of magic to send a message to

the PC. LB tells the PC that there is a race of people on Pagan who can help the PC. LB
sends the PC to Mythran for more information about these people. (Sal

2. The PC goes/returns to Mythran and asks about the ancient race. Mythran explains that he Le n>
had a vision of a strange man from another world. The man in the vision told V veaeas) of one “—— fr ~
who would come seeking knowledge of the Zealans. This vision convinces hranvto tell the lag

Hof the inv 485

U

 
  
 

PC about the Zealans despite the fact that doing so might possibly incur t
titans.

3. Mythran tell the PC about a man named Gal!i
Mythran had not see this man in a very long time. However, Mythran tells the PC that
Galli
in a cavern in the Plateau. Mythran tells the PC where the key that unlocks the doors can be
found. The PC must solve some damn puzzle to get the key.

4. Inside of the doors, the PC finds a dead body which turns out to be Galli
Galii
mentions that in order to get to the Lost Vale, one must find four magic coupons, each
coupon representing an element.

5. So off goes the PC into a dungeon which is divided into four parts. Each different part of the
dungeon, is a different elemental theme.

6. Once the PC has gone through the entire dungeon, he is faced with a blockade of, (you
guessed it), elemental forces. Four pillars, Earth, Air, Fire, and Water block the path to the
Lost Vale. If the PC has all of the coupons, he can use the opposite power on each pillar to
destroy all of the pillars, (ex: Fire coupon on water pillar).

7. When the PC finds the Lost Vale, he finds a place that was once lush and beautiful, but is
now barren and desolate. The once unified Zealans have separated into two factions, each
living near one of the two sources of water left in the vale. Ezrekal, the High Priestess of the
Zealan religion has been shunned by the two communities, and the communities are
involved in a destructive blood feud.

8. Ifthe PC tries to talk to any of the Zealans, he will treated with hostility and attacked. When
he is attacked he will be taken prisoner. The Zealan's will only believe he is not a Pagan if he
passes their "Test of Rutabaga." He is forced to take this test. The test involves a nasty
plant that has a delectable fruit. The fruit is at the heart of the plant and is guarded by long,
poisonous spines. The PC is told if he passes the test, they will feast upon the fine fruit. If he
fails the test he will be poisoned. The PC fails the test. The poison begins to affect him. He is
told the only cure for the poison came the high priestess. They tell the PC where Ezrekal is,
but tell him it will do no good as Ezrekal can no longer speak to the Gods and receive the
cure.

 

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

19.

16.

Upon finding Ezrekai, PC will learn that she has been shunned by her former flock because
she can no longer bring the Zealan gods to speak to their followers. She says that could she
speak to the Gods, she could cure him, but the Magic Frisbee has been broken and the Gods
no longer speak. She goes on to tell the PC that a very long time ago, before she was old
and leathery, the Pagan titans attacked the Zealan gods during the Great Council. (The
Great Council being a gathering of all Zealans once a year.) Upon this attack, the Zealan
gods were sealed in the Shrine of the Wheaties. Most of the Zealans escaped, but some
were also sealed in the shrine. Ezrekal attempted to reach the only gods that had not yet
arrived at the Great Council, Love, Hate, and Apathy, but in the attack on the gods, the
magic Frisbee was broken.

The Magic Frisbee is, it seems, essential in communicating with the gods. Whenever a
person talks to the Zealan gods, that person needs some special item which is associated
with the gods in order to talk to them. (i.e. the ancient Zealan Shield in the Shrine of the
Ancient Ones) Ezrekal tells the PC she tried many things to repair the Magic Frisbee, but
nothing worked. Then one night, the two halves of the Magic Frisbee were stolen while she
slept. The Zealens, who were already unhappy with her for being unable to repair the Magic
Frisbee, turned against her completely.

The Zealens began a search for the thief and found two young men, Draesh and Ikanikar,
are missing. Draesh's family accused Ikanikar of stealing the Magic Frisbee and said their
boy, Draesh, simply went after the thief. They feel that Draesh must have been murdered by
that Ikanikar. Ikanikar's family said the opposite. Draesh stole the halves of the Magic
Frisbee and Ikanikar went after him. This feud divided the tribe in half and the two sides
have been involved in a "blood feud" ever since.

Ezrekal says that only the Gods can cure the PC. She says that she can not help, but
perhaps the Gods will help him directly. To do this the PC must climb the Cliffs of Insanity to
the home of the Gods in the Cloud City and ask for their help.

The PC scales the Cliffs of Insanity which lead to the home of the gods. In times past, no
Zealan would ever dare to try to reach the Cloud World, where the gods reside. However,
since the gods have abandoned them, some Zealans have attempted to scale the cliffs to
discover why the gods left them. In the process of scaling the cliffs, the PC finds the bones
of many a dead Zealan. The PC encounters a new monster, the Harpie.

Once the PC finds the Cloud World, he discovers that he home of the gods has been
deserted. The PC discovers a message from one of the gods which has been left for
Apathy, Love, and Hate. The message tells the three gods that the titans have attacked the
pantheon of Zealan gods at the Great Council and that they need Love, Hate, and Apathy's
help as quickly as possible. (Of course, Love, Hate, and Apathy have been entombed down
at the shrine of Kumash Ghor) He also finds the two halves of the Magic Frisbee by the
skeletons of two warriors.

The PC returns to Ezrekal, shows her (or tells her about) the scroll. It leads him to believe
the Gods are locked into the Shrine of Wheaties by the titans. He also shows her the two
halves of the Magic Frisbee. She says since the Magic Frisbee disappeared, she has done a
lot of studying and thinks she has a way to repair it. However, the repair will require the belief
of all the people behind it. She tells the PC to go to the villages and tell the two leaders the
two halves have been found and to meet at the Sacred Smallish Unusual-Colored Rock for
the attempt to put it together.

The PC goes to the Sacred Smallish Unusual-Colored Rock. In a set scene, Ezrekal and the
two leaders show up and, with much wailing and gnashing of teeth, "

Frisbee together. When the Frisbee is ref!

explain to the gathered group that they both stole the Frisbee and were going to try to take it

 

17.

18.

19.

to the Cloud City to find the Gods and demand the Frisbee be repaired. Instead they were
set upon by wicked beasts and killed. The two groups realize they made a terrible mistake
and everyone is happy again...sort of. The Gods are still not there.

The PC and Ezrakel must then break through the wall which leads into the shrine. (Some
sort of explosive and a nice piece of usecode will do very well here.) (This can be done here
or earlier in the game.)

Once inside of the shrine, the PC finds that the gods are encased in an amber like resin,
(they look like the shields in the move "Dune".) If the Magic Frisbee hasn't been reii
Ezrekal says that only the strength of all the people can break them free. They go to reii
the Frisbee. If the Magic Frisbee has been re!

strength of the rei!

kernel of wisdom to the PC

Gods released, water flows, green plants, PC gets his bag, blood feud ended, all are happy,
the end.

 

THE LOST VALE
Lost Vale Team
Plot plan

version 1.2
05-09-94

1. Upon installing the disk, the PC sees a vision of Lord British. LB tells the PC that Nystul, his
magician, has managed to break through the Guardian's veil of magic to send a message to
the PC. LB tells the PC that there is a race of people on Pagan who can help the PC. LB
sends the PC to Mythran for more information about these people.

2. The PC goes/returns to Mythran and asks about the ancient race. Mythran explains that he
had a vision of a strange man from another world. The man in the vision told Mythran of one
who would come seeking knowledge of the Zealans. This vision convinces Mythran to tell the
PC about the Zealans despite the fact that doing so might possibly incur the wrath of the
titans.

3. Mythran tell the PC about a man named Galjeron who had been searching for the Zealans.
Mythran had not see this man in a very long time. However, Mythran tells the PC that Galjeron
could most likely be found on the other side of a huge set of double doors which are in a
cavern in the Plateau. Mythran tells the PC where the key that unlocks the doors can be
found. The PC must solve some damn puzzle to get the key.

4. Inside of the doors, the PC finds a dead body which turns out to be Galjeron. As it turns out,
Galjeron kept a journal which described his efforts to find the Lost Vale. The journal also
mentions that in order to get to the Lost Vale, one must find four magic coupons, each coupon
representing an element.

5. So off goes the PC into a dungeon which is divided into four parts. Each different part of the
dungeon, is a different elemental theme.

6. Once the PC has gone through the entire dungeon, he is faced with a blockade of, (you
guessed it), elemental forces. Four pillars, Earth, Air, Fire, and Water block the path to the
Lost Vale. If the PC has all of the coupons, he can use the opposite power on each pillar to
destroy all of the pillars, (ex: Fire coupon on water pillar).

7. When the PC finds the Lost Vale, he finds a place that was once lush and beautiful, but is now
barren and desolate. The once unified Zealans have separated into two factions, each living
near one of the two sources of water left in the vale. Ezrekal, the High Priestess of the Zealan
religion has been shunned by the two communities, and the communities are involved in a
destructive blood feud.

8. Ifthe PC tries to talk to any of the Zealans, he will treated with hostility and attacked. When he
is attacked he will be taken prisoner. The Zealan's will only believe he is not a Pagan if he
passes their "Test of Rutabaga." He is forced to take this test. The test involves a nasty plant
that has a delectable fruit. The fruit is at the heart of the plant and is guarded by long,
poisonous spines. The PC is told if he passes the test, they will feast upon the fine fruit. If he
fails the test he will be poisoned. The PC fails the test. The poison begins to affect him. He is
told the only cure for the poison came the high priestess. They tell the PC where Ezrekal is,
but tell him it will do no good as Ezrekal can no longer speak to the Gods and receive the
cure.

 

10.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

Upon finding Ezrekal, PC will learn that she has been shunned by her former flock because
she can no longer bring the Zealan gods to speak to their followers. She says that could she
speak to the Gods, she could cure him, but the Shield of the Ancients has been broken and
the Gods no longer speak. She goes on to tell the PC that a very long time ago, before she
was old and leathery, the Pagan titans attacked the Zealan gods during the Great Council.
(The Great Council being a gathering of all Zealans once a year.) Upon this attack, the Zealan
gods were sealed in the Shrine of the Wheaties. Most of the Zealans escaped, but some were
also sealed in the shrine. Ezrekal attempted to reach the only gods that had not yet arrived at
the Great Council, Love, Hate, and Apathy, but in the attack on the gods, the Shield of the
Ancients was broken.

The Shield of the Ancients is, it seems, essential in communicating with the gods. Whenever a
person talks to the Zealan gods, that person needs some special item which is associated with
the gods in order to talk to them. (i.e. the ancient Zealan Shield in the Shrine of the Ancient
Ones) Ezrekal tells the PC she tried many things to repair the Shield of the Ancients, but
nothing worked. Then one night, the two halves of the Shield of the Ancients were stolen while
she slept. The Zealens, who were already unhappy with her for being unable to repair the
Shield of the Ancients, turned against her completely.

The Zealens began a search for the thief and found two young men, Snori and Hoskuld, are
missing. Snori's family accused Ikanikar of stealing the Shield of the Ancients and said their
boy, Hoskuld, simply went after the thief. They feel that Snori must have been murdered by
that Hoskuld. Hoskuld's family said the opposite. Snori stole the halves of the Shield of the
Ancients and Hoskuld went after him. This feud divided the tribe in half and the two sides have
been involved in a "blood feud" ever since.

Ezrekal says that only the Gods can cure the PC. She says that she can not help, but perhaps
the Gods will help him directly. To do this the PC must climb the Cliffs of Insanity to the home
of the Gods in the Cloud City and ask for their help.

The PC scales the Cliffs of Insanity which lead to the home of the gods. In times past, no
Zealan would ever dare to try to reach the Cloud World, where the gods reside. However,
since the gods have abandoned them, some Zealans have attempted to scale the cliffs to
discover why the gods left them. In the process of scaling the cliffs, the PC finds the bones of
many a dead Zealan. The PC encounters a new monster, the Harpie.

Once the PC finds the Cloud World, he discovers that he home of the gods has been
deserted. The PC discovers a message from one of the gods which has been left for Apathy,
Love, and Hate. The message tells the three gods that the titans have attacked the pantheon
of Zealan gods at the Great Council and that they need Love, Hate, and Apathy's help as
quickly as possible. (Of course, Love, Hate, and Apathy have been entombed down at the
shrine of Kumash Ghor) He also finds the two halves of the Shield of the Ancients by the
skeletons of two warriors.

The PC returns to Ezrekal, shows her (or tells her about) the scroll. It leads him to believe the
Gods are locked into the Shrine of Wheaties by the titans. He also shows her the two halves
of the Shield of the Ancients. She says since the Shield of the Ancients disappeared, she has
done a lot of studying and thinks she has a way to repair it. However, the repair will require
the belief of all the people behind it. She tells the PC to go to the villages and tell the two
leaders the two halves have been found and to meet at the Sacred Smallish Unusual-Colored
Rock for the attempt to put it together.

 

16.

17.

18.

19.

The PC goes to the Sacred Smallish Unusual-Colored Rock. In a set scene, Ezrekal and the
two leaders show up and, with much wailing and gnashing of teeth, join the two halves of the
Shield of the Ancients together. When the Shield of the Ancients is rejoined, the shades of the
two boys appear. They explain to the gathered group that they both stole the Shield of the
Ancients and were going to try to take it to the Cloud City to find the Gods and demand the
Shield of the Ancients be repaired. Instead they were set upon by wicked beasts and killed.
The two groups realize they made a terrible mistake and everyone is happy again...sort of.
The Gods are still not there.

The PC and Ezrakel must then break through the wall which leads into the shrine. (Some sort
of explosive and a nice piece of usecode will do very well here.) (This can be done here or
earlier in the game.)

Once inside of the shrine, the PC finds that the gods are encased in an amber like resin, (they
look like the shields in the move "Dune".) If the Shield of the Ancients hasn't been rejoined,
Ezrekal says that only the strength of all the people can break them free. They go to rejoin the
Shield of the Ancients. If the Shield of the Ancients has been rejoined, Ezrekal calls upon the
new found strength of the rejoined people and, in a set scene, break the gods free. Gods give
some kernel of wisdom to the PC

Gods released, water flows, green plants, PC gets his bag, blood feud ended, all are happy,
the end.

 

 

U8-CB-Enkanced 4. 1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Schedule for resources .
4-26-94 cy Faglor
( ™
f \ x
MONTH | Brian M. | Sheri G. Jason E. 2 Artist. / Andrew M.
April -Design Plot | -Design Plot ~ ” -Paperwork
(4/15/9 | -Write Plot | -Vacation for Review
4) » Document
_ -Generate art list
May _ -Implement (Maps, | -Implement : -Items -Review
_ Conversations, _ (Conversations, : -Terrdn/walls : -Usecode
_ Usecode) _ Usecode, Maps) : : -NPCs Assistance as
_ -Update Docs 3 fC necessary
June _ -Implement (Maps, -Implement : -Install Program -Items -Work with
_ Conversations, ' (Conversations, ; -Usecode Advice | -Terrdn/walls Mktng & Pubs
Usecode) ' Usecode, Maps) : as necessary -NPCS for packaging,
_ -Update Docs i etc.
: -Usecode
. . Be : Assistance
July | -BETA -BETA : -BETA : -BETA -BETA
"(Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) : (Fix bugs) : (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs)
_-UpdateDocs eed peeeneeeesississesse
August = Sign-off & Ship Sign-off & Ship : Sign-off & Ship Sign-off & Sign-off &
(8/1/94) Ship Ship
tv ’
fist s & —
_ } ~B POR és ———_—
- “<= PLS eS yar VA l]™) a
7 Clk.
x eee Coy
yx } Ss A) a)) p KE J
_ \ t-z Poe. - \ tel

- eer.

7 ENes

 

U8 Add-on

Schedule for resources

4-26-94

 

- MONTH

' Brian M. : Sheri G.

: Jason E.

 

April
(4/15/9
4)

'-Design Plot —_; -Design Plot
_ -Write Plot : -Vacation
: Document

_ -Generate art
: list

: Artist

i Lisa S.

 

 

May

-Implement -Implement

: (Maps, : (Conversations,
: Conversations, : Usecode, Maps)

_ Usecode)___

Update Docs >

i -Usecode
Advice as
necessary

: -NPCs :
| -Terrain/walls :
: -Items :

© -Train with

Unk (& WE)

 

: June

: -Implement : -Implement
: (Maps, : (Conversations,

: Conversations, Usecode, Maps)

Ysecode) >
(-Update Docs 7 <

-Install
Program
-Usecode
Advice as
: mecessary

“NCS
: -Terrain/walls :
: -Items :

: -Usecode

 

i July

_ -BETA : -BETA
_ (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs)
: -Update Docs :

-BETA
: (Fix bugs)

-BETA
: (Fix bugs)

BETA
| Fix bugs)

 

: August :
: (8/1/94) |

“Sign-off &  Sign-off & Ship

Ship

Sign-off &
Ship

 

: Sign-off &
_Ship

“Sign-off &
_Ship

 

 

 

ne

ane

U8 Add-on
Schedule for resources

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5-17-94
MONTH : BrianM. _ Sheri G. Jason E. | Micael P. Lisa S.
April -Design Plot -Design Plot
(4/15/94) : -Write Plot -Vacation
Document :
: -Generate art list
-Galjeron's scroll :_ i
May -Maps: -Convos: : -Usecode : -NPCs: -Train with Unk
: Elemental Ezrekal, Male Advice as Ezrekal, Male (& WE)
Dungeon, Lost Elder, Pémale | necessary : Zealan, Female
Vale Farmer ~ Zealan
“S! -Teach NPC -Update Docs -Terrain/walls:
. animations Cloud City
i i i prdZg _
June : -Maps: : -Maps:  -Install | -NPCS: -Convos:
: Cliffs : Cloud City : Program : "Change Female Elder,
-Convos: : -Convos: ' -Usecode clothes" on "Teched"
Female Hunter,——:-Male "Vet" Advice as : Zealans, 3 gods, ; Female,
<—? Male. Farmer --Usecode: : necessary ' Harpy, LB Moonshine
—— os e Plant scene -Items Male
Sussacors ' -Update Docs -Usecode:
cliihs Shade scene,
A
Buttes. aabs
July -BETA : -BETA -BETA ' -BETA -BETA -
(Fix bugs) : (Fix bugs) ' (Fix bugs) : (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs)
i : -Update Docs i ;
August Sign-off & Ship : Sign-off & Ship Sign-off & Ship Sign-off & Ship : Sign-off & Ship
(8/1/94) i i

 

 

Sin cu *

 

U8 Add-on
Schedule for resources

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

5-17-94
i MONTH _: Brian M. : Sheri G. : Jason E. : Micael P. : Lisa S.
: April i=DesigrPtot = :_-Desigr Plot
(4/15/94) : -Write-Ptot- —-Vacation—
:_-Galjeron's scrol—:
May : -Maps: : -Convos; | -Usecode . -NPCs: ~Train with Unk=>
| Blemental ! 2. Bzrekai=Male 1] | Advice as | Ezrekal, Male | (& WE)
Dungeon, Losts>/iEldef, Hunter ~ = necessary : Zealan, Female
Vale : -UpdateDocsy— : Zealan
-Teach NPC ' -Terrain/walls:
: animations : Cloud City,
: Cloud Terrain
June : -Maps; -Maps: r -Install -NPCS: -Convos:
t cufts S—1O : cloud City by Program i "Change Female Elder,
-Usecode: -Convos: -Usecode : clothes" on "Teched" if
i “F+Columns, Cliffs | Male "vert Advice as | Zealans, 3 gods, | Female,
-Teach NPC -Usecode: 4] _ | Necessary | Harpy, LB Moonshine
; animations} Plant scene _ -Items Male
-Update Docs | -Usecode: »~, | (D
Shade scent
Onal . : AO scene,7%
: A ) -Maps:
"Building" »
: i globs S
July -BETA » -BETA '-BETA --BETA -BETA
(Fix bugs) : (Fix bugs) | Fix bugs) : (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs)
: -Update Docs
August Sign-off & Ship. Sign-off & Ship Sign-off & Ship Sign-off & Ship | Sign-off & Ship
(8/1/94) : i i

 

 

 

 

U8 Add-on

Schedule for resources

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6-6-94
MONTH | Brian M. : Sheri G. | Jason E. Micael P. i Steve P. j Lisa S. i
April _ -Design Plot | -Design Plot | ;
(4/15/94) | -Write Plot | -Vacation
- Document i
_ -~Generate art — |
list i i
- -Galjeron's
_ scroll
May _ -Maps: | -Convos: | -Usecode -NPCs: -Train with
| Elemental | Ezrekal Advice as | Ezrekal, Male Unk (&
| Dungeon, | -Update necessary | Zealan, Female WE)
Lost Vale | Does Zealan
| | -Terrain/walls:
Cloud City,
| Cloud Terrain
June : -Maps: | -Convos: -Usecode -NPCS: -Teach -Convos:
- Cliffs (10d), | Ezrekal (5d), | Advice as "Change NPC Female
Elemental | Male Elder necessary clothes" on animations | Elder (3d),
| Dungeon | (4d), Zealans, 3 (20d) "Teched"
' (10d) | Hunter (4d), gods, Harpy, Female
| Male "Vet" LB (4d),
_ -Usecode: | (4d) -Items Moonshine
Columns*, | -Usecode: ; Male (4d)
- Cliffs* | Plant scene ; -Usecode:
| (2d) | Shade
| -Update : scene (9d)
~Docs(Id) i :
July . -Maps: | -Usecode: _ -Install -Teach | -Usecode:
. Lost Vale Plant scene | Program NPC ; Shade
' (10d), . (8d) _ (7d) , animations ; scene (1d),
Cloud globs —_-Maps: | -Usecode (2d) ‘ AO scene
. (1d) Cloud City Advice as , (4d)
; _ (4d) necessary | -Maps:
_ -Update | "Building"
| : Docs (1d) | i i globs(3d)_
August | -BETA | -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA | -BETA
| (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) | (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) i (Fix bugs)
_ -Update i
| Docs i {
September Sign-off & ) Sign-off & Sign-off & { Sign-off & Sign-off & j{ Sign-off &
(9/1/94) ' Ship | Ship Ship : Ship : Ship i Ship

 

 

 

* Usecode time included in map estimates.

 

ip-lb
b-/ 4

L210 4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ss
U8 Add-on
Schedule for resources
6-6-94
MONTH Brian M. Sheri G. Jason E. Micael P. Steve P. Lisa S.
April -Design Plot -Design Plot
(4/15/94) -Write Plot -Vacation
Document
-Generate art
list
-Galjeron's
scroll
May -Maps: -Convos: -Usecode -NPCs: -Train with
Elemental Ezrekal Adviceas Ezrekal, Male Unk (&
Dungeon, -Update necessary Zealan, Female WE)
Lost Vale Docs Zealan
-Terrain/walls:
Cloud City,
Cloud Terrain
June -Maps: -Convos: -Usecode -NPCS: -Teach -Convos: 4 |
Cliffs (10d), Ezrekal o Advice as "Change NPC Female?
Elemental Male El necessary clothes" on animations __ Elder (dd),
Dungeon ol (4d), Zealans, 3 (20d) "Teched"
|] Hunter (4d), gods, Harpy, Female
Male "Vet" LB (4d),
-Usecode: (4d) 2 -Items Moonshine
Columns*, -Usecode: Male (4d)
Cliffs* Plant scene -Usecode:
(2d) Shade
-Update scene (9d)
Docs (1d)
July -Maps: -Usecode: -Install -Teach -Usecode:
Lost Vale Plant scene Program NPC Shade
(10d), (8d) (7d) animations — scene (1d),
Cloud globs -Maps: -Usecode (2d) AO scene
(1d) Cloud City Advice as (4d)
(4d) necessary -Maps:
-Update "Building"
Docs (1d) globs (d)
August -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA
(Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) — (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs)
-Update
Docs
September  Sign-off & Sign-off & Sign-off & — Sign-off & Sign-off &  Sign-off &
(9/1/94) Ship Ship Ship Ship Ship Ship

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Usecode time included in map estimates.

LaceltS

 

U8 Add-in

Schedule for resources

 

 

 

 

 

—— My

ic wgyele)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6-10-94
MONTH Brian M. | Sheri G. Jason E. | Micael P. Steve P. Lisa S.
April -Design Plot | -Design Plot
(4/15/94) -Write Plot -Vacation
Document
-Generate art .
list |
-Galjeron's
_ scroll
May , -Maps: | -Convos: -Usecode -NPCs: -Train with
| Elemental : Ezrekal Advice as | Ezrekal, Male Unk (&
Dungeon, | -Update necessary Zealan, Female WE)
Lost Vale | Docs Zealan
-Terrain/walls:
Cloud City,
Cloud Terrain
June -Maps: -Convos: -Usecode -NPCS: -Teach -Convos:
Cliffs (10d), Ezrekal (3d), | Advice as "Change NPC Thordis
Elemental Male Elder necessary | clothes" on animations j (1d),
Dungeon (fa) Qa), =" Zealans, 3 (20d) “Feched"
Hunter Gd), gods, Harpy, Female
"| -Usecode: Male."Vet" LB 4d),
Columns*, (2d) Or"E -Items Moonshine
Cliffs* -Usecode: Male(4d)
| Plant scene -Usecode:
| (2d) Shade
| -Update scene 9d)
Docs (1d)
July -Maps: -Usecode; -Install -Teach -Usecode:
Lost Vale Plant scene | Program NPC Shade
(10d), (8d) (7d) animations } scene (Id),
Cloud globs | -Maps: -Usecode (2d) AO scene
(1d) | Cloud City | Advice as (4d)
(4d) necessary -Maps:
-Update "Building"
i Docs (1d) globs 3d)
August -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA
(Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) | (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) | (Fix bugs)
-Update
Docs
September | Sign-off & Sign-off & Sign-off & | Sign-off & Sign-off & | Sign-off &
(9/1/94) Ship Ship Ship Ship Ship Ship

 

 

 

 

* Usecode time included in map estimates.

 

U8 Add-in

Schedule for resources

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6-17-94
MONTH Brian M. Sheri G. Jason E. Micael P. Steve P. Lisa S.
April -Design Plot -Design Plot
(4/15/94) -Write Plot -Vacation
- Document
_ -Generate art
list
-Galjeron's
scroll
May -Maps: -Convos: -Usecode -NPCs: -Train with
Elemental Ezrekal Advice as Ezrekal, Male Unk (&
Dungeon, - Update necessary Zealan, Female WE)
Lost Vale Docs Zealan
-Terrain/walls:
Cloud City,
Cloud Terrain
June -Maps: -Convos: -Usecode -NPCS: -Teach -Convos:
Cliffs (16d), Ezrekal (3d), | Advice as "Change NPC Thordis
Elemental Atli Gd), necessary clothes" on animations _ (1d),
Dungeon (1d) --Hunter-@Gd;> Zealans, 3 (20d) Hrondny
Tyorvi (2d) gods, Harpy, (2d),
-Usecode: -Usecode: LB Ingyald
Columns*, _Plant-seene -Items (2d)
Cliffs* ead -Usecode:
-Update Shade .
Docs (1d) scene (A) (/ a
July -Maps: -Usecode: -Install -Teach -Usecode:
Lost Vale Plant scene Program NPC Shade
(10d), @ (7d) animations _ scene (1d),
Cloud globs _ -=.-Maps: -Usecode (2d) AO scene > ff r m
(Id) EPs City | Advice as (aa 7 4
un ) necessary -Maps:
A -Update "Building"
i wha Does (14) globs (3d)
August -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA
(Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) | (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) | (Fix bugs)
-Update
Docs
September | Sign-off & Sign-off & Sign-off & | Sign-off & Sign-off & | Sign-off &
(9/1/94) Ship Ship Ship Ship Ship Ship

 

 

 

 

* Usecode time included in map estimates.

 

U8 Add-in
Schedule for resources

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6-24-94
MONTH Brian M. Sheri G. Jason E.  Micael P. Andrew _ Steve P. Lisa S.
April -Design Plot | -Design Plot
(4/15/94) -Write Plot | -Vacation
Document
-Generate
art list
-Galjeron's
scroll
May -Maps: -Convos: -Usecode | -NPCs: -Train with
Elemental Ezrekal Advice as | Ezrekal, Male Unk (&
Dungeon, - Update necessary  Zealan, WE)
Lost Vale Docs Female
/ Zealan
Terrain/walls:
Cloud City,
Cloud Terrain
June -Maps: -Convos: -Usecode | -NPCS: -Usecode: | -Teach -Convos:
Cliffs id), +Ezreka-Gd, Adviceas "Change Lord NPC Thordis
Elemental Atli (3d) necessary | clothes" on British animations (1d),
Dungeon Zealans, 3 (1d) (12d) Hrondny
(1d), Lest Tyorvi (2d) gods, Harpy, (1d),
Vale@d—-  -Usecode: LB -Convos: Ingyald > QR a
Mythran (2d) C
-Usecode: =| -Update -Items (2d) -Usecode: \
Columns*, Docs (1d) Shade \
Cliffs* scene (6d)
July -Maps: -Usecode: -Install -Usecode: -Teach -Usecode:
Lost Vale Plant scene Program AO scene NPC _-+-Shade
($d), ($d) (7d) (4d), animations —scene-1d)-~
Cloud globs | -Maps: -Usecode Bag o' (10d)
(1d) _ Cloud City Advice as Reagents -Maps:
Bo aly 488(3d) necessary (1d) "Building"
-Convos: -Update globs (3d)
Hunter (3d) | Docs (1d)
July -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA
(7/18/94) | (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) | (Fix bugs)
-Update
Docs
August Sign-off & Sign-off & Sign-off  Sign-off & Sign-off & | Sign-off &
(8/15/94) | Ship Ship & Ship Ship Ship Ship

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* Usecode time included in map estimates.

 

Schedule for resources =
6-24-94 7

U8 Add-in

94

 

Steve P.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MONTH Brian M. Sheri G. Jason E.  Micael P. Andrew Lisa S.
April -Design Plot | -Design Plot
(4/15/94) | -Write Plot -Vacation
Document
-Generate
art list
-Galjeron's
scroll
May -Maps: _ -~Convos: -Usecode | -NPCs: -Train with
Elemental _. Ezrekal Advice as | Ezrekal, Male Unk (&
Dungeon, i - Update necessary | Zealan, WE)
Lost Vale Docs Female Zealan
Terrain/walls:
Cloud City,
Cloud Terrain
June -Maps: * ' -Convos: -Usecode | -NPCS: -Usecode: | -Teach -Convos:
Cliffs (1d), -~—Ezrekal{3e); Advice as | "Change Lord NPC Thordis
Elemental Ati (Gt),04 necessary — clothes" on British animations | (1d),
Dungeon _—_—_Tyorvi-(2d). Zealans, 3 (1d) (12d) Hrondny
(1d), Lost | gods, Harpy, (1d),
Vale(2d) —- -Update LB -Convos: Ingyald
Does-4= Mythran (2d)
-Usecode: -Items (2d) -Usecode:
Columns*, Shade-——
Cliffs* -scene-(6d)~
July -Maps: _ -Usecode: -Install -Usecode: | -Teach -Usecode:
Lost Vale -Plantscene = Program AO scene | NPC -Shede=~
(8d), (8d)—.. (7d) (4d), animations | .scene-hd}e.
Cloud globs | -Maps: -Usecode Bag o' (10d)
(1d) Cloud City Advice as Reagents -Maps:
d) necessary (1d) "Building"
ganerr -Update globs (3d)
ifr (3d) _-Does¢td)—
July -BETA _-BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA -BETA
(7/*8/94) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) | (Fix bugs) (Fix bugs) | (Fix bugs)
ae -Update
Docs
August Sign-off& — Sign-off & Sign-off  Sign-off & Sign-off & | Sign-off &
(8/15/94) | Ship | Ship & Ship Ship Ship Ship

 

 

 

* Usecode time included in map estimates.

Vad

 

Pr a
Le

Ce

\ damn puzzle to get the | key. } ee ttt esas asian

Lost Vale Walk Through

|. Upon installing the disk, the Avatar sees a vision of Lord British. LB tells \ ot”
the Avatar that Nystul, his magician, has managed to break through \s
the 4
Guardian's veil of magic to send a message to the Avatar. LB tells ‘ ge as °")
the Avatar that there is a race of people on Pagan who can help the 1 ) 4” L
Avatar. 0 v
LB sends the Avatar to Mythran for more information about these a
people.

>
ll. The Avatar goes/returns to Mythran and asks about the ancient race. NY
Mythran explains that he had a vision of a strange man from another
world. The man in the vision told Mythran of one who would come
seeking knowledge of the Zealans. This vision convinces Mythran to
tell the Avatar about the Zealans despite the fact that doing so might
possibly incur the wrath of the titans.

Ill. Mythran tell the Avatar about a man named Galjeron who had been
searching for the Zealans. Mythran had not see this man in a very
long time. However, Mythran tells the Avatar that Galjeron could most
likely be found on the other side of a huge set of double doors which
are in a cavern in the Plateau. Mythran tells the Avatar where the key
that unlocks the d goose can be found., /The 1 Avatar must solve some |

 

IV. Inside of the doors, the Avatar finds a dead body which turns out to be
Galjeron. As it turns out, Galjeron kept a journal which described his

efforts to find the Lost Vale. The journal also mentions that in order to
get to the Lost Vale, one must find]four magic coupons, \each coupon ( )

representing an element. a
p g Hv}

Bia

x»

V. So off goes the Avatar into a dungeon which is divided into four parts. eer”
Each different part of the dungeon, is a different elemental theme.

VI. Once the Avatar has gone through the entire dungeon, he is faced with

a blockade of, (you guessed it), elemental forces. Four pillars, Earth,
Air, Fire, and Water block the path to the Lost Vale. If the Avatar has all
of the coupons, he can use the opposite power on each pillar to destroy
all of the pillars, (ex: Fire coupon on water pillar).

Vil. When the Avatar finds the Lost Vale, he finds a place that was once
lush and beautiful, but is now barren and desolate. The once unified
Zealans have separated into two factions, each living near one of the

 

two sources of water left in the vale. Ezrekal, the High Priestess of the
Zealan religion has been shunned by the two communities, and the
communities are involved in a destructive blood feud. Apparently
the two communities of Zealans are now sharply divided over how
the Zealans should live. One group claims that the Zealans should
remain within the Vale. The other group claims that the Zealans AM at }
should po> |
seek out and live amongst the Pagans. 4
Vill. If the Avatar tries to talk to any of the Zealans, he will either ay
attacked as an outsider, or hailed as a visiting Pagan.. Having been
shut off from water, except for the two small spring wells which support

the two feuding communities, the Zealan civilization is dying on the vine,
and the Zealans are becoming more and more hostile and untrusting

of anyone outside of their small community. Through exploration or
through one of the Zealans, the Avatar will learn of the
whereabouts of the High Priestess.

IX. Upon finding Ezrekal, Avatar will learn that she has been shunned by her
former flock because she can no longer bring the Zealan gods to

speak _ to their followers. cal tells the Avatar that a very long time
(2 ago, before she was old and leathery, the Pagan titans attacked the
Al ef Fos gods during the Great Council. (The Great Council being a
gathering of all Zealans once a year.) Upon this attack, the Zealan
gods were sealed _in the Shrine of the Wheaties. Most of the Zealans
escaped, but some were also sealed in the shrine. The Zealans that

escaped did not understand the attack and mistook it as the gods being
angry with them.(Joan/attempted to reach the only gods that had not yet
arrived at the-Great Council, Love, Hate, and Apathy, but in the

attack on the gods, Ezrekal lost her) Magia Witsbess

X. The Magic Frisbee is, it seems, essential in communicating with the gods.
whenever a person talks to the Zealan gods, that person needs some
special item which is associated with the gods in order to talk to

them. 2-4 -
lige the ancient Zealan Shield in the Shrine of the Ancient Ones)

ee \

pm

X|. The Avatar scales the| cliffs of insanity which leads to the home of the
gods. In times past, no Zealan would ever dare to try to reach the
Cloud World, where the gods reside. However, since the gods have
abandoned them, some Zealans have attempted to scale the cliffs to
discover why the gods have left them. In the process of scaling the
cliffs, the Avatar finds the bones of many a dead Zealan.

 

X. Once the Avatar finds the Cloud World, he discovers that he home of the
gods has been deserted. The Avatar discovers a message from one of
the gods which has been left for Apathy, Love, and Hate. The

message
tells the three gods that the titans have attacked the pantheon of

Zealan
gods at the Great Council and that they need Love, Hate, and

Apathy's
help as quickly as possible. (Of course, Love, Hate, and Apathy have
been entombed down at the shrine of Kumash Ghor)

XI. The Avatar tells Ezrekal that the gods have been sealed into the Shrine
of
Wheaties by the titans. The Avatar and Ezrakel must then break
through the wall which leads into the shrine. (Some sort of explosive
and a nice piece of usecode will do very well here.)

XII. Once inside of the shrine, the Avatar finds that the gods are encased in
an amber like resin, (they look like the shields in the move "Dune".)
Ezrakel tells the Avatar that the gods need the faith of the people as
much as the people need the strength of the gods. (Maybe she should
tell the Avatar this earlier in the plot.)

XIll. The Avatar must somehow reunite_the two feuding tribes in order to

free the gods from their entrapment) There is a young couple, one from

each _ side of the feud, who are in love. The Avatar uses them to reunite the
two factions in the shrine and use the people's combined strength,
(faith?) to free the gods.

XIV. Gods released, water flows, green plants, Avatar gets his bag, couple
marry, all are happy, the end.

ri p 2 ec, +
woth Weep) > Bes 9 TOR SATS

a

(oo

wv

S 5-6

 
