    
  

E THE Most

ERFUL AVATAR WITH

THE Fe COMPREHENSIVE
STRATEGY GUIDE TO THE

y + ampeiieco eh eC
yy,

 

  

4 Wy ees ae
roles AV oct

Joe Hutsko & Raymond Lueders

ISBN#1-55958-594-3

"868

74"00594'™ 5

  

0

Pagan: Cltima VW

The Citimate Strategn Guide

Secrets of the Games
NOW AVAILABLE FROM PRIMA

COMPUTER GAME BOOKS

SimEarth: The Official Strategy Guide

Harpoon Battlebook: The Official Strategy Guide

JetFighter II: The Official Strategy Guide

The Official LucasFilm Games Air Combat Strategies Book

Sid Meier's Civilization, or Rome on 640K a Day

Wing Commander I and II: The Ultimate Strategy Guide

Chuck Yeager’s Air Combat Handbook

Ultima: The Avatar Adventures

A-Train: The Official Strategy Guide

PowerMonger: The Official Strategy Guide

Global Conquest: The Official Strategy Guide (with disk)

Gunship 2000: The Official Strategy Guide

Dynamix Great War Planes: The Ultimate Strategy Guide

SimLife: The Official Strategy Guide

Populous: The Official Strategy Guide

Stunt Island: The Official Strategy Guide

Ultima VII and Underworld: More Avatar Adventures

X-Wing: The Official Strategy Guide

Prince of Persia: The Official Strategy Guide

Empire Deluxe: The Official Strategy Guide

F-15 Strike Eagle III: The Official Strategy Guide (with disk)

Lemmings: The Official Companion (with disk)

Secret of Mana Official Game Secrets

The 7th Guest: The Official Strategy Guide

Myst: The Official Strategy Guide

Return to Zork Adventurer’s Guide

Microsoft Flight Simulator: The Official Strategy Guide

Strike Commander: The Official Strategy Guide and Flight School

Might and Magic Compendium: The Authorized Strategy
Guide for Games I, II, III, and IV

SimFarm Almanac: The Official Guide to SimFarm

Computer Adventure Games Secrets

Quest for Glory: The Authorized Strategy Guide

Falcon 5: The Official Combat Strategy Book, revised ed.

SimCity 2000: Power, Politics, and Planning

SSN-21 Seawolf: The Official Strategy Guide

Master of Orion: The Official Strategy Guide

Outpost: The Official Strategy Guide

Betrayal at Krondor: The Official Strategy Guide

Alone in the Dark: The Official Strategy Guide

Dracula Unleashed: The Official Strategy Guide & Novel

CD-ROM Games Secrets, Volume 1

Sherlock Holmes, Consulting Detective: The Unauthorized Strategy Guide

Aces Over Europe: The Official Strategy Guide

Pagan: Ultima VIiI—The Ultimate Strategy Guide

HOW TO ORDER:

Individual orders and quantity discounts are available from the publisher, Prima Publishing,
P.O. Box 1260BK, Rocklin, CA 95677; phone: 916-652-4400. On your letterhead include
information concerning the intended use of the books and the number of books you wish to
purchase. Turn to the back of this book for more information.

Pagan: Cltima V LI

The Citimate Strategy Guide

“Foe Kyutsko
and
Raymond Lueders

)

PRIMA PUBLISHING

P.O. Box 1260BK
Rocklin, CA 95677-1260

© 1994 by Joe Hutsko and Raymond Lueders

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical,
including photocopying, recording, or by any information storage
or retrieval system without written permission from Prima Publishing,
except for the inclusion of brief quotations in a review.

Executive Editor: Roger Stewart

Managing Editor: Neweleen A. Trebnik

Project Editor: Dan J. Foster

Copy Editor: Susan P. McColl

Book Design and Layout: Danielle Foster, Scribe Tribe
Cover Design Adaptation: Page Design

Cover Illustrator: Matthew Holmes

Cover Production Coordinator: Anne Johnson
Indexer: Mary Jane Mahoney

Pagan is a trademark of Origin, Inc.
All products and characters mentioned in this book are trademarks
of their respective companies.

Important:

Prima Publishing, Inc., has made every effort to determine that the
information contained in this book is accurate. However, the pub-
lisher makes no warranty, either express or implied, as to the
accuracy, effectiveness, or completeness of the material in this book;
nor does the publisher assume liability for damages, either inciden-
tal or consequential, that may result from using the information in
this book. The publisher cannot provide information regarding game
play, hints and strategies, or problems with hardware or software.
Questions should be directed to the support numbers provided by
the game and device manufacturers in their documentation. Some
game tricks require precise timing and may require repeated
attempts before the desired result is achieved.

Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 94-66630
ISBN: 1-55958-594-3

Printed in the United States of America

94 95 96 97 CWO 109876545321

Contents

Acknowledgments xiii

part I
Introduction to Pagan 3

) Traveler Advisory

Save Your Life 3
Stealing, or “Greed Is Good!” 4

   

Don’t Get Caught! 4
Breaking and Entering 5
Drawers and Hidden Items 5
Foodstuffs and Drinks 5
Money 6
Running, Jumping, Climbing, and Falling Down 6
Climbing 7
Jumping 7
Falling 7
On Dangerous Ground 7

Water and Puddles 8

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategu Guide

 

e

Lava 8

Platforms 8

®

Fire Bombs (Spitters) and Fire Sconces (Shooters) 9

Floor Spikes 9
Inventory and Items 9
Knapsacks 9
Key Ring 9
Stacking Items 10
Pouches 10
Resting and Waiting 10
Get a Bedroll 11
Appointments and Passing Time 11
Teleporter Recall Pads 12
Combat 15
Vulnerability Points 13
Building Strength and Other Attributes 14
Power-Up Sound 14
Potions 14
Bombs 15
Chests, Chest Traps, and Boxes 15
Levers and Switches 17
Books 17
Foes 18

Contents

Weapons and Armor 19

Onward Go! 20

Part IT

This (orld Not Mine: The Storp of Pagan 2)

Prologue: A Waking Nightmare 22

 

3) 2 Stranger in a Strange Place

 

3 The City of Tenebrae

West Tenebrae 34

The Palace 39

East Tenebrae 43
Bentic the Librarian 45

2) 4 Seeking the Plateay and Mipthran

 

The North Cave 50
Plateau Cave 50
The Power Hammer Cave 52

Mythran’s House 52

vii

49

 

 

ey

Pagan: Citina VILI—The Citimate Strategu Guide

 

 

 

 

 

5 The Avatar’s Apprenticeship

Vividos and Lothian 57
The Ceremonial Dagger 58
The Ceremony 61

Trouble in Tenebrae 65
Back to Mythran’s 65

The Fated Docks 66
Reagents for Vividos 68

6 The Path wo the Ancient Necomaners 7)

 

The Upper Catacombs 71

The Necromancers’ Test 73

 

7 To the Kall of the Mountain Ring 8)

Stone Cove 81

The Dreaded Floating Platforms 83

The Force Field Maze and the Gem of Protection 84
More Floating Platforms 86

Meeting with Lithos 87

Returning to Vividos and Interring Lothian 88

Contents

8 AL Visitation with the Zealans

 

   

The Skull of Quakes 92
To the Level Below 94
The Marble Room 96
The Stair Puzzle 97
The Zealan Statues 97
Khumash-Gor 98

   

Q The Element of Air

To Argentrock Isle 101
Gaining Enlightenment 102
The Test of Wisdom 104

The Test of Centeredness 105
Creating Foci 106

Silver for the Foci 108
Korick the Blacksmith 109
Energizing the Foci 110

The Third Test 110

The Lost Foci 112

Taking the Leap of Faith 115

SB

Pagan: Citina VITI—'The Citimate Strategu Guide
10 The Element of (ater

   

Carthax Lake 119
Unleashing the Lurker 120
A Warning for Devon 122

   

1) The Titan of Fire

Speaking with Beren 125
A Conspiracy with Bane 126
Deceiving Vardion 128
The Death of Vardion 131
The Library 132

Begin Testing 133

The Trials 154

Extinguish Trial 136

Flash Trial 136

Endure Heat Trial 1357
Armor of Flames Trial 139
Summon Pyros 140
Defeating Malchir 142

 

 

 

Contents

12 The Titan of Ether

The Heart of the Earth 145
The Secret Treasure Room 147
The Breath of Wind 149

The Tear of the Seas 149

To the Ethereal Plane 150

13 The Gnd Game

Al Down and Dirty Calk-’Throvgh

3] B The Pagan Library

Index 195

x

 

 

 

 

     
  
   
  
  
  

119 eat dts edi ted ; 18984 sett
< iwter THAME orgie iT i098 oqit

wen BE pay Be ere ait

 

= Tc SE) xed!

 

   

“fade Meat’ $v Vek eS

 

he

 

Aicknowledgments

This was my first book for Prima. For our coming-together, I’d like
to extend an extra large thanks to Roger Stewart, Prima’s publish-
ing honcho extrordinaire, and my agent, Matt Wagner, at Waterside
Productions, who introduced Roger to me in the first place. Thanks
also to Prima’s Diane Pasquetti and my editor, Dan Foster, who
managed this project like the pro that he is.

Having just said that this is my first book for Prima, the truth is
it’s only partially mine. After submitting the “Traveler Advisory”
section, and then writing Chapters 1 through 5, I hit an obstacle: |
was scheduled to start writing my second book for Prima, Rebel
Assault: The Official Insider’s Guide, even though I hadn’t yet finished
the first one. (Roger assures me that this sort of conflict isn’t so
unusual. In this case, Origin’s intended ship date for Pagan slipped
a few months, knocking my own dating game out of whack.) Enter
Raymond Lueders. Ray resumed the Avatar’s journey right where I
left off and took the book to the finish with nary a nag—and in
record time, to boot! Thanks, Ray.

How I was chosen to author this book in the first place has more
than a little to do with my past. As a freelance writer, I’ve written a
fair share of reviews and features on and about electronic enter-
tainment. Without those published samples, I doubt Prima would
have seriously considered me as a potential author. For my first big
breaks in the electronic-entertainment writing business, I'd like to
thank Multimedia World editors Paul Worthington and Don Menn,
and former MMW editor Suzanne Sefanac; former PC Games editor
and expert freelancer Gregg Keizer; Gamepro editor Lawrence Nevez;
and my “if-it-feels-good-just-do-it” Wired editors Kristin Spence, Mark
Frauenfelder, and John Battelle.

Finally, thanks to my family and friends, all of whom charge me
now and then with the confidence-boosters that keep me doing
what I’m doing.

Joe Hutsko

xiil

 

   

 

oh

 

+

     

oN salidag » St Te rormit sana eed sikh '
aiteiiek *SHDRRE Hatt IESE EN: bas 5 ution ort
a ieet ciel set atltni aT yi ee) Ext  hedeantis i To ey
ore TROT MR Aotibe ute Bre bieunes9 soakd 2 'sont ol FEL
Ei OF IN OMT Set GAL topsites; sti! pepo: .

4 Tt SS ent] yot domed jet Yate Be crt. me i Base Pele gibt
“SypInglya A WSS RTP St Sort rMendue LEIA. ; “SG Piscine Hines 3°ai

 

 

  

 

 

| ivetedo ne HiT A Aout | ee S382 pr i bw wedt Brie uscti34e
“adh BAF sat en od brrouse sh oF acid iW Fite of agisste3t fet Bisa

 

satel ive Pein BRIG risve wy st} ess ean § WON eT Hh Wee
re Pett inifitioa G oe ii ist! sre sone, "Spots core wre| apts
Gi SPA tele, pabersies STO wR aielt mt Jesse
19108 (Aosiia to tue 9 Mee ANGeP nov yas cows setrigre wet é
benoiw tiph yann:c] s ulevA oct ett PS) Yat esha) prem zeH
Al Grain 6 “ise athe dais? sett sj es od Si? HOO! bas Fo Sat
7 ood of sit traos:
Picwn 2 cas Bey aie 3 ry ins oy Mee eho | west
bd a trws ev T Siw Somnath em 6A seer: uit Tidivs obs oy SEMU BIA
AHS Siroriosis fee LYS €or BRS? tg pwsepr ty siede tis
Svorny. ish ihn) a nsilatidic + 2809 HCN anaes
” Re Y “goer soda 6 iia SOE Fi 26 _ hgted ; sfetsobesse WEL:
Sah & :. Siew? or iteg Repetto are it nutesis srl ate ARR
aos NOK b ib ous Som soiree we HEN pies SKA Siegen Arai
TABS CemBe OV areal oepiee sangsro yoFha YAM tsraet hey
EVE" soretecd Sees ORES NES AMIS hoe) aise SEIN bers
et 3s Re 1 Behit apagiits teers pe SEH yees Dar 4
sti eweyt :

    

 

   

 

   

    

 

    
   

SH SEkiS MGHiw to fe Yebnaht bi vf
EtHor ss qsod jer Peta dee ee

’

 

Introduction to Pagan

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Traveler Aldvisory

you know several important things about the place and how
things work. While on Pagan you may, for example, con-
sume potions to restore vitality or Mana (for casting spells); on the
other hand, simply taking a short nap will accomplish the same
results without requiring you to carry weighty vials or scrolls. For
many players, survival tips like these are preferred over outright
solutions because they let you focus on solving puzzles instead of
learning the ropes necessary to get started on your quest.
In a word, this chapter is about managing—managing your Avatar
intelligently so that you can survive the world of Pagan more effi-
ciently and pleasurably.

@ Save Vour Life @

Unlike the Ultima games that came before it, Ultima VIII: Pagan
does not, in the event of your demise, magically return you to the
place where you expired. Instead, you must choose to return to
one of twelve saved game positions, which are stored in your diary.
Yes, saving a game in progress is a pain in the rear because it can
take, depending on your system, anywhere between twenty sec-
onds and two minutes. And no, nobody likes to wait. Still, think of
all that ground you've covered since your last save, all those foes
you’ve slain, the treasures you’ve acquired, and all that strength
you’ve gained. Do you really want to go through all of that again?
Even if it does take two minutes to save a game, that’s not exactly
a bad thing. If you’re like many Ultima fans, you may find yourself

G etting along on the Guardian’s world of Pagan is easier when

3

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

qe 2

playing for hours at a time—use the time it takes your computer to
save the game to your advantage. Give yourself a break: get up and
stretch...have a glass of water...say hello to your family, friends, or
pet anteater...qrab a snack—after all, like the Avatar, you need to
restore your energy now and then, too!

@® Stealing, or “Greed Is Good!” @

Let’s get one thing straight right up front, gentle Avatar: Pagan is a
hostile world. Your friends are few and your foes many. To survive
you'll need all the help you can get. That means you'll need items,
including better armor and weapons, food, money, jewels, potions,
scrolls, books, and various other goods that you can consume or
use. To get these items, you must steal. Often. And with no apology
or guilt.

Don't Get Caught:

The most important thing to remember when stealing is, never get
caught. Take things only when you are alone in a room, or when a
nearby character is in another room or has his or her back turned
away from you, and isn’t watching you.

Why shouldn’t you get caught stealing? Simple: Get caught, and
you're mincemeat, no ifs, ands, or buts. The person from whom
you stole will summon a spirit, who in short order tries you, sen-
tences you, and then executes you by blowing you into a dozen
wriggling bits. Great graphics; horrible demise.

 

e Qhapter 1 Traveler Advisory
Breaking and Entering

Many homes and buildings are unlocked: and easy to enter. Some-
times someone will be inside with whom you should try conversing.
Some characters may offer you items or let you take what you want,
but most will not. If you see something you want, wait until the
person leaves. Better yet, roam around and look elsewhere and
come back later. Chances are he or she will be gone.

Some homes and buildings are locked. If they’re outdoors (as
opposed to those within the catacombs), they’re usually locked
because nobody’s home. Come back later or after a rest and try the
door again. More often than not it will be open during certain hours,
locked during others.

Sometimes a house can be “broken into” by climbing onto its
roof and entering via a rooftop stairway. Give it a try. Once inside
you'll have the run of the place. To leave, you won’t be able to exit
through the front door (after all, you did break in in the first place).
Instead, go back upstairs to the roof, climb onto its surrounding
rail, then walk off the edge to leap to the ground.

Drawers and Khidden Items

When searching a home or building for items, look everywhere.
That means not just the obvious places, like drawers and on tables,
but also in hidden places, like under pillows, under hairbrushes,
and beneath urns and vases.

|P Drawers often contain seemingly worthless contents; even

so, make sure you always move items inside drawers, chests,

and boxes, either aside or out of the container—occasion-

ally useful items are hidden beneath useless items. In more than

one case, keys that are essential to your quest are hidden beneath

other items in drawers, or beneath objects in a room, such as under

an urn. Don’t hesitate to turn a room or chamber upside down
when searching for items!

Foodstuffs and Drinks

Departing yet again from Ultima’s past, you don’t have to eat on
Pagan to survive. Yes, eating will help you restore lost Hit points a
little at a time. And yes, it’s fun to munch on cheese and fish and
sausages, but you don’t have to unless you want to or need to. That
is to say, you won’t die of hunger if you don’t eat on Pagan the way
you would have in previous Ultimas.

The things you can safely eat in Pagan are fish, cheese, sausage,
bread, kith filets, and brown mushrooms.

Py

qe Pagan: Citina VITI—'The Cltimate Strategy Guide ®

Things to avoid eating include speckled or multicolored mush-
rooms, as well as blue mushrooms; some of these are poisonous,
whereas others bring on a psychedelic state, turning your world all
topsy-turvy and paisley-hued. A fun trip, maybe, but not conducive
to completing your quest.

As for beverages, stay away from Tenebraen ale. It’ll make you
drunk and slow you down. Usually, it’s recognized by its green bottle
and yellow-orange label. You may drink water but doing so is not
important to your survival.

Money

While there’s money hidden all over the place in Pagan, it’s useful
for only a few things.

The blacksmith will gladly sell you armor or weapons; however,
there are better, stronger weapons available to you at no cost—if
you know where to find them (as you'll learn in the narrative and
walkthrough sections).

Tenebrae’s Captain, Darion, will offer to train you in combat by
sparring with you, but there are ways of building your Strength and
Dexterity that won’t cost you anything, as described below in the
section “Building Strength and Other Attributes.”

The one place where you must have money is at the old wizard
Mythran’s house, which you will travel to early in your quest, and
back to again and again throughout your stay on Pagan. Mythran
sells spellbooks, scrolls, reagents, and other useful items that can
be acquired only with Obsidian coins.

|P Because money is heavy and takes up space, and because
you need it only at Mythran’s, leave any money you’ve accu-
mulated there, at his house, whenever you drop in on him.

sure you “stack” it on top of any money that’s already in

your knapsack, as described below in “Inventory and Items.”
Stacking money (or any “stackable” item, including reagents, for
that matter) into one pile takes up less space and weight in your
inventory.

® Ronning, Gunping, Climbing, ©&
and Falling Down

Pagan is the first Ultima that lets you, the Avatar, really stretch your
legs. Besides walking and running, you can also jump and climb.
The sooner you master basic movement, the better you'll fare on
Pagan.

P When you pick up money and put it in your inventory, make

Chapter) “Traveler Advisory _®

Practice taking all three kinds of steps—single, medium, and long.
Do the same for running and jumping. Practicing your full range of
basic maneuvers early in the game will benefit you in two ways.
First, you'll learn sooner how to think and act fast on your feet and
you'll be able to progress more confidently in tight spots—like dur-
ing combat or when leaping across deadly chasms—and second,
you'll increase your Avatar’s dexterity level, which, as with every
character attribute, makes for a more powerful Avatar.

Climbing

Climbing requires a little extra attention. When attempting to climb
onto a rooftop or ledge, make sure the arrow cursor is at its short-
est possible length and pointing directly in front of the Avatar, then
click both mouse buttons to make the Avatar scale the surface. If it
doesn’t work, chances are you’re not positioned correctly in front
of the surface you're trying to climb. Make sure you’re nose-to-nose
with it. Also, while some surfaces look like they’re meant to be
climbed, they may not be. As you explore Pagan you'll begin to
recognize the differences in terrain and surface that indicate areas
you can climb.

“Gumping

When jumping across a chasm, or to a platform, or across a series
of platforms, save your game before you leap. There’s nothing more
frustrating then watching the Avatar leap too far or too short of his
intended landing and have to start all over again. In some cases,
you may want to save the game as you reach each platform in a
series of platforms, so that if you miss the next one, you'll start
over from the last one you reached rather than the entire series.

Falling

As a rule, you can leap, or fall, a distance equal to your own height
without injuring yourself. A fall from a higher distance will result in
some lost Hit points, and possibly death (during the early part of
the game anyway, while you’re still weak and unprotected). If you
do come to a place where the only way down is by falling a distance
two times your height or greater, make sure you either rest or drink
a restorative potion first so that the damage you receive will be
minimal.

@ On Dangerous Ground @

While most of the ground you cover on Pagan is easy to distinguish
as Safe to cross, there are some areas that may appear safe but are

Ge

@ Pagan: Citima VILI—The Citimate Strategy Guide ®

in fact life threatening. When you’re not sure of a terrain’s weight-
worthiness, take single steps, one at a time. If your next step will be
a fatal one, the Avatar will utter the word “Whoaaaa!” Turn and try
another direction, or see if there’s a place across from you to which
you can safely jump.

(Cater and Puddles

Wherever you see water, whether it’s open sea or water-filled chasms,
tread carefully. Safe footing at the edge of volcanic rock is white
and blue, and you can walk and even run along this terrain without
sinking to your death. Dark blue water is a definite downer, guaran-
teed.

Puddles, found mostly inside the stone floor catacombs, always
crumble when you walk or land on them. When you encounter
puddles, either go around them or jump across them.

Lava

Recognizing dangerous lava areas is easy if you know what to look
for, and what to listen for. Lava pits are like water chasms, only
instead of sinking to your death you burn. Stepping or leaping onto
bright yellow lava is a definite no-no; but it’s generally safe to cross
or jump onto orange lava intermingled with stone floor chunks.

Glowing holes in a stone floor indicate lava traps. Step too close
to these and the floor beneath you crumbles away, taking you with
it. Also, some lava holes in the floor or in rock terrain indicate hid-
den lava spouts that gush into the air if you get too close.

Hidden lava floor traps are recognized by the sound they make: a
distinct plop-ploit sound. When you hear this, move to the nearest
wall and hug it as closely as possible as you walk or run through the
passage or corridor. Once the sound goes away you’re out of dan-
ger—from those traps, anyway.

Platforms

Platforms, whether they’re in the water or floating in thin air, are
thrilling—at least the first time you encounter them. The thrill wears
off fast. After a few frustrating missteps, jumping from platform to
platform starts to feel like Super Mario from Hell. There’s no simple
solution to crossing platforms other than figuring out exactly where
to stand on the platform you’re jumping from, so that you land
correctly on the platform you’re jumping to. Here, practice makes
perfect; however, wherever possible, the easiest and most effective
sequence to crossing certain platforms is described in the narrative
and walkthrough sections of this book.

@ Chapter) Traveler Advisory
Fire Bombs (Spitters) and Fire Sconces (Shooters)

Fire Sconces, which are little holes in the wall that shoot fireballs,
require agility and careful timing to pass. Watch the shooter in
question to learn its pattern, then walk, run, or jump past it when
it’s safe.

Fire Bombs, which appear to fall from the sky, are actually
launched from floor-standing spouts. Quick side-stepping or run-
ning is how to get past these spitters safely.

Floor Spikes

Floor Spikes, which shoot up when you cross them, look like a row
of dark gray circles. Go around them whenever possible, or stand
far enough away and jump across them. Worst case: If you’re jabbed
by Floor Spikes or, for that matter, hit by a fireball, get past the
obstacle. Then double-click your bedroll and rest for one hour to
restore whatever Hit points you may have lost.

Inventory and Items @

From the very start of the game the Avatar is outfitted with a knap-
sack, in which you store supplies such as food, potions, extra
weapons, spells, and other items important to surviving and ac-
complishing your quest. There are a few helpful tricks to managing
your inventory and working with your knapsack that will enable you
to carry more than you could normally carry.

Knapsacks

First, find a second knapsack (such as the one on the Palace roof-
top) and put it in your main knapsack, creating a knapsack in a
knapsack. In your main knapsack, store items you need close at
hand, such as keys (or your key ring, as described below), a few
potions, scrolls, and spells you’ve prepared. In your extra knap-
sack, store everything else.

The Avatar can carry only three times his own weight; however,
with this knapsack trick, you can almost always take on more weight.
If an item won’t go in your knapsack, open your second knapsack
and try dragging the item to it instead. In most cases you'll be able
to acquire the item.

Koy Ring

Along with your bedroll, a key ring is one of the most useful items
you can acquire on your journey. Get it as soon as you enter

®

 

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

e ®

Tenebrae. It’s located upstairs in the front right quard tower in the
Palace, inside a basket that’s inside a barrel. Put it in your knap-
sack. When you find a key, double-click on it, then click once on
the key ring. You’ll hear a metallic click sound and the key will be
attached to your key ring. Without a key ring you'll quickly wind up
with a bunch of keys in your inventory that you'll have to sort through
every time you want to unlock something. Plus, individual keys take
up space and add weight to your inventory. Keys attached to your
key ring, however, take up only the space and weight of one key—
no matter how many keys you attach to it.

To use a key in the key ring, double-click on the key ring, then
click the target cursor on the chest or door or other locked item
you want to open. If you have the right key, the lock will open. If
you don’t, the lock won’t open and you'll need to find the appropri-
ate key and add it to your key ring.

Stacking Items

Stacking certain items is another trick to keeping the weight and
number of items to a minimum. To stack an item, drag it onto an
existing item of the same sort in your inventory. This trick works
mostly with spell reagents, such as bone shards and piles of wood.
Although a stack of items looks like one item, clicking once on it
will indicate exactly how many items are actually “stacked” inside
the item. Dragging the stacked item will present a panel with a scroll
bar, letting you use or move from the pile only the number of por-
tions you need.

Pouches

Keep two pouches in your inventory. You'll come across pouches
early in your travels, so don’t worry about finding them right away.
If they won't fit in your main knapsack, store them in your second
knapsack. In one pouch, store reagents and other items necessary
for creating spells. Use the second pouch for actually creating the
spells. To create a spell, drag the required items into the empty
spell, then use the Key of the Caretaker (which you'll get from Vividos
later in the game) on the pouch. The spell will be created in the
pouch. Move the spell to your knapsack or second kKnapsack so
that it’s close at hand and ready to use, and so the second pouch is
once again empty and ready for creating more spells.

@ Resting and CCaiting @

Resting is how you restore lost Hit points and lost Mana points. In
battle you'll no doubt lose Hit points (especially early in the game,
when you’re inexperienced and poorly equipped). Casting spells

}0

ee Chapter} "Traveler Advisory »

causes your Mana to drop. While consuming potions can restore
both of these values (red potions for Hits, orange for Mana), resting
doesn’t require anything but a bed or bedroll.

Get 9 Besroll

Your bedroll is your best friend. It lets you sleep almost anywhere at
any time, providing there’s no danger in the immediate area. You
can get a bedroll at the very start of the game, from Devon. It’s lying
right next to the fire. Double-click on it to roll it up, then drag it into
your knapsack.

To use the bedroll, double-click on it (you don’t need to take it
out and unroll it). While you can sleep between one and six hours,
you'll never need to sleep more than one hour to fully restore all of
your Hit and Mana points. If, when you try to use your bedroll, you
get the message “This is no time to rest,” walk to another area until
you find a place where it is safe to sleep. Foes will not attack you
while you sleep. Also, there is no time limit to completing Pagan, so
don’t worry that resting a lot will somehow ruin your chances of
finishing the game within a certain time limit.

Appointments and Passing Time

Occasionally, you'll need to be in a certain place at a certain time in
order to receive a special item from a character (for example, when
meeting the servant Aramina at her home at the Bloodwatch hour,
as described later in the narrative and walkthrough).

The easiest way to tell time is by double-clicking on a clock. You
may take one of these and put it in your knapsack if you wish.

When asked to meet a character in a certain place at a certain
time, go to that place and see if he or she is there. If not, it’s not the
right time. To wait for the character, go away from the place you are
expected to meet, then take out your bedroll and rest for one hour.
(You must situate yourself away from the determined meeting place
by a distance of at least three or four screens, or else the person
will not show up.) When you wake up, go to the meeting place and
see if the door is unlocked. If not, then it isn’t the right time yet.
Leave the premises, rest for another hour, and go back to the locked
door and try again. If the door is still locked, leave and rest again,
as many times as necessary until the door is unlocked when you
try it.

Another way of doing this is to have a clock with you. Before you
rest, check the time by double-clicking on the clock. Next, use the
list below to determine how many hours of rest to take in order to
wake at the agreed-upon meeting hour.

Time in Tenebrae passes in this order: Bloodwatch, Firstebb,
DayTide, Threemoons, Lastebb, Eventide.

ni

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategn Guide

 

a ©

When you wake, go directly to the meeting place and your cocon-
spirator will be waiting for you.

@ Teleporter Recall Pads @

The world of Pagan is huge, and getting around takes lots of leg
work—unless you use Recall Pads, which teleport you to and from
several important locations. To use Recall Pads, two things must
occur. First, you’ll need the Item of Recall, which the wizard Mythran
will give you the first time you go to him, early in the game (as
described later in the narrative and walkthrough sections). Second,
you must have seen a Recall Pad in order to teleport yourself to it.

Recall Pads are square and gray. When you approach one, it rises
slightly and glows. You must see it rise slightly and glow, or else you
won’t “remember it” in order to teleport to it later in the game. To
ensure that a Recall Pad is committed to memory, walk near it or on
it in order to make it recognize you.

You may use the Item of Recall almost anywhere (except Daemon’s
Crag and the Sorcerer’s Enclave) by double-clicking on it. When
you do, a list of Kecall Pad locations, which you have stood on or
near to activate, will appear. Click one, and you'll teleport to that
Recall Pad. Although Mythran warns that there is a limit to the use-
fulness of the Item of Recall, in this player’s travels it has never
failed to work, all the way through to the end of the game.

The first Recall Pad you will find is located on the top of the
Palace, in the center of the roof.

* ae P od
s Moc ed bec)

 

LP

Chapter) "Traveler Advisory
Table 3-1

   

Recall Pad Where Located
CentralTenebrae Located on Palace rooftop

Upper Catacombs Just east of entrance

Argentrock Isle Southern end, outside of stone wall
Carthax Lake North end

Daemon's Crag Northeast corner

Hall of the Mountain King Southwest corner, directly south of Lithos
Plateau Mythran’s House

Table 1-1 is a list of other Recall Pads, and where they are located.
When you visit these areas for the first time on foot, be sure to find
and activate each one’s associated Recall Pad so that you can teleport
to it later.

@ Combat @

No matter how peaceful a person you are, you'll eventually have to
face off with foes if ever you’re to survive and eventually depart
Pagan alive. In many cases, though, you may choose to evade foes
by sidestepping them, running past or around them, or using a po-
tion, such as one inducing invisibility, to temporarily prevent foes
from even seeing you in the first place. The most important benefit
of combat is that the more foes you slay, the more your Strength
attribute increases. Besides improving your ability to slay monsters,
Strength also determines how much you can carry (your Strength
value times three equals the total weight you can hold in your in-
ventory). The second useful thing about combat is that the creature
you slay may have items on its body that you can use. Double-click
on the creature’s body to see if it has left behind anything of use.

Vulnerability Points

While the Avatar can block, kick, and slash, the latter, slashing, is
what works best against foes (provided, of course, your Avatar is
equipped with a weapon). In general, facing your foe and striking is
all it takes to attack. Don’t worry about getting the arrow cursor
directly centered on a foe’s head or leg. Just face the foe and get as
close as possible, then click away as quickly as you can.

5)

 

@ Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide _»

@ Building Strength @
and Other Attributes

Ghouls, when taken one at a time, are relatively easy to kill. You'll
find them outside of Tenebrae, and especially in and around the
Cemetery, located at the extreme east end of town. After finishing
one off, check your Health status before attacking more ghouls.
Rest, if necessary, then take on more. After several kills your at-
tributes will rise, making you more powerful and capable.

Power-Cp Sound

During combat now and then you'll hear a sound—a rising, sucking-
air sort of sound. This is a good sound, because it indicates that
one or more of your Avatar’s attributes has just gone up.

When you hear it, check your status and you'll see that your
Strength has gone up. You'll also hear this sound occasionally when
or after you make a jump or while you’re running. Check your Sta-
tus panel after you hear the sound after running or jumping and
you’ll see that your Dexterity has gone up.

Here’s a secret: the more you engage in combat and exert your-
self by running or jumping, the higher your attributes will rise—even
if you’re not fighting a foe, as in running just for the heck of it or
jumping in place! Foolish as you may feel, the sooner you start
running around like a madman and jumping in place and drawing
your dagger and swinging it at nothing, the quicker you'll build your
Avatar’s character attributes. Go ahead, give yourself a workout—
you'll thank yourself for doing it the moment you encounter and
whip your first foe. It’s a good idea to save your game whenever
you hear your attributes go up, so that if you need to restore, you'll
be in peak condition for the next round.

@ Potions @

Potions come in vials and are consumed by double-clicking on them.
Be careful: some potions are good, while some will affect you dan-
gerously or kill you.

Table 1-2 is a list of potions and their uses.

Since resting on your bedroll is a quick and easy way to rebuild
your Strength and Mana, consume potions when you find them if
you need them; otherwise take only a few and come back to them
later if you need more. Carrying lots of potions weighs you down
and limits how many things you can carry.

4

Qhapter) ‘Traveler Aldvisory
Table 9-2

   

Type of Potion What It Does
Yellow Heals a small measure of your Hit points
Red Fully restores Hit points, but don’t consume unless your

points are low, otherwise it works against you like a
poison and attacks your Hit points

Orange Restores some Mana

Green Poison

Blue Puts you to sleep

Black Makes you invisible for a short period of time

Purple Temporarily boosts your power and ability to ward off

blows in combat

@ Bombs @

Flasks and Bottles of Oil can be tossed at enemies to weaken them.
To light a Flask or Bottle of Oil, double-click on it—then get ready to
act fast. As soon as you double-click, the arrow pointer will change
to a targeting pointer (a cross). Move the targeting pointer to the
enemy or area you want to hit.

Don’t let go of the mouse button while the cursor is an

arrow—it means your target is too far to reach or is not lined

up correctly, and the bomb will explode on you if it is in your
backpack, or near you if it is on the ground. Learn to throw bombs
correctly and they can help you. Fumble with them and you'll wind
up blowing yourself to bits.

Later in the game you'll find other exploding devices. Table 1-3 is
a list of each bomb item, instructions on how to activate it, and a
description of what it does.

|P Make sure you're as far away from a Chaos Gem as possible
when you throw it, as its spawns may land near you.

@® Chests, Chest Traps, and Boxes @

Chests almost always contain things of use. Often a chest is locked
and requires a key to open it. Usually, the necessary key is some-
where nearby, in another room in the house or in a drawer or under

SWS

Pagan: Citima VITI—'The Citimate Strategu Guide

 

   

®
Table 1-5
Type of Bomb How to Activate What It Does
Flask of Oil Double-click to Causes fire explosion

activate, then drag to
desired target and let go

Bottle of Oil Double-click to Causes fire explosion
activate, then drag to
desired target and let go

Death Disk Drag to desired target Causes powerful
and let go; do not flaming explosion
double-click first
or else it will blow up
on or near you

Fire Gem Double-click to Causes strong fire
activate, then drag to explosion
desired target and let go
Chaos Gem Double-click to Causes strong acid
activate, then drag to explosion, then
desired target spawns several more
gems that explode
after it

a vase. Look everywhere. Move objects that are scattered about the
room; move or remove objects from drawers to look beneath them.

Chests are often rigged with exploding traps. There are two ways
to figure out whether or not a chest is trapped. The first way is the
easiest but sometimes time consuming. First, rest your character
before you attempt to open the chest (you may need to unlock it
first, which is safe and won’t trigger a trap if one is present). Assum-
ing your Avatar has built up a few levels of Strength, you can open
a trapped chest and survive its explosion without dying. Make sure
you rest again immediately afterward, though, so that your Hit points
return to maximum.

The second method involves magic scrolls: the Scroll of Trap
Detection, and the Scroll of Trap Destruction. These scrolls are
hidden throughout Pagan, in chests and in drawers, and elsewhere.
The first scroll, Trap Detection, determines whether or not a nearby
chest is trapped. You must be standing close to the chest in order
for this scroll to work. If a chest is indeed trapped, then move to a
safe distance and cast the second scroll, Trap Destruction, to trigger

16

a Qhapter) Traveler Aldvisory _®

the trap and cause it to explode. You must be standing at a safe
distance away from and facing the chest when you cast-activate this
scroll, or else you will be injured and possibly killed by the trap’s
explosion.

Once you’ve determined a chest is untrapped or have disarmed
one using the scroll of trap detection, you may open the chest and
inspect its contents.

@ Levers and Switches @

There are several kinds of switches and levers on Pagan. Most of
the time they’re easy to spot if you know where to look. In homes in
which you see an adjacent room but are unable to reach it because
there’s no door leading to it, look for a switch nearby. Usually it’s
on, near, or around a fireplace, in the same room or close by.
Switches are also located on wails, often well hidden and easy to
miss. Look closely. If you see a secret room but no doorway leading
to it, there’s always a lever to open the way.

Be careful: there are a few trapped switches that explode when
you pull them. You may want to save your game before pulling a
switch, so you can restore to the point just before pulling the switch
in case your action proves fatal.

In dungeons you'll find an assortment of levers that operate heavy
doors, gates, and hidden rock passages. These take some experi-
mentation to figure out (although all are described in the narrative
and walkthrough sections of this book). Sometimes it may seem
like a lever operates a gate or metal door; however, you'll notice
that by simply walking up to certain gates they will open or close
regardless of a nearby lever’s position. If a gate closes as you ap-
proach it, turn around and walk away for a distance of several
screens, then come back to the gate. Sometimes the gate will open.
And vice versa.

@ Books @

Reading books you find on shelves or in chests or drawers is how
you increase your knowledge, and how you learn about certain
events or instructions that are important to your journey. Except
for spellbooks, you don’t need to carry books in your inventory
after you‘ve read them, because every important book is transcribed
at the end of this book, in Appendix B. You have to carry spellbooks,
which the wizard Mythran will create for you (for a price), in order to
use them.

|P Be wary of “trick” and “joke” books. These books, bound in
black leather, explode when you open them. Ha ha, very
funny.

WY

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

THe GIG FOOK OF
ADVENTURE
6g Sladck

Recoracdé on €hese pages
are €ips | have found
abile on mg advenéures.
Read well, Fellows quester,
for gour life wag maell de
saved by recalling ¢besc
in gour ¢ime of need.

Puzzles: You will de in
luck if such puzzles are

plageé eith levers. These
are asaallg pot harwul,
and require lit€éle tite, if
you watch gour
surroundings For clues.
Center levers usually
reset €¢he puzzle.

Traps. If €¢here is a chase
si€€ting ipnocenély in €bhe
open, touch i€ noe!
€speciallg if i€ bas wang
corpses around i¢! These
are €he o€ber dol€s cabo

 

 

 

@ Foes @

Knowing something about certain foes makes beating them (or avoid-
ing them altogether) easier.

Ghouls are dumb and relatively easy to beat, even early in the
game, when all you’ve got is a dagger and no armor. The stronger
you get, the quicker you'll put these undead to rest for good.

Changelings look like you when you see them, so don’t be alarmed
when you think you’re seeing your twin coming your way with his
weapon at the ready. They’re not too difficult to beat and halfway
through battle they change back to their true, ugly little selves. When
you defeat them they always leave behind treasures, including
money, potions, and Flasks of Oil.

Skeleton warriors are absolutely the worst enemies to fight be-
cause even if you kill them they reassemble and come back for
more. Unless, that is, you’ve been lucky enough to find the magical
Flame Sting sword, which kills them once and for all. (You'll acquire
this weapon and other magical weapons later in the game, as de-
scribed in the narrative and walkthrough sections).

Invisible foes are nearly impossible to see and are identified by
their red eyes. Keep alert. If you hear an extra set of footsteps that
sound like your own, there’s an invisible foe nearby. Look closely
for those red eyes, sometimes blinking. Get out your weapon. If
you can’t find the eyes, start slashing in all directions. When you
land a hit on an invisible foe, its outline is temporarily revealed.
Keep hitting in that direction to conquer the unseen antagonist.

18

Chapter) Traveler Advisory »

Kiths are like huge spiders. They’re slow and easy to run past or
around. If you’re stuck in a corner and have to fight one, try weak-
ening it as it approaches you by tossing Flasks of Oil or Death Disks
at it.

Spirits, despite the gooseflesh-raising chill wind they conjure when
they appear, are not hostile unless you are already in Combat mode,
or go into Combat mode when you see one and throw the first
strike. Otherwise, you can get close to ghosts without them bother-
ing you as long as you tread peacefully.

Trolls are big and stupid and slow and easy to evade. Trolls often
guard precious treasures or keys. Rather than fight them, save your
game; then run in quickly and grab whatever goods the trolls are
guarding, and get out. While trolls are big lugs and not very good
fighters, their strikes, when they’re lucky enough to land them, are
often lethal with the first blow.

Seekers are those relentless red-eyed monsters that are hard to
hit because of their extended snapping teeth. Try getting around
them if you can. If you must fight one, make sure you’re wearing
strong armor—when you kill a Seeker it explodes and showers the
immediate surroundings with dangerous green acid goo.

Daemons are big and fiery, and are very difficult to beat. Luckily,
you'll obtain a special spell to help you evade them the first time
you encounter them. Let it be a lesson to you: run if you can, since
these terrible beasts usually travel in packs.

Toraxes, which look like lumbering baby dinosaurs, are rarely
troublemakers. Just because you see one or are close to one doesn’t
mean it’s going to attack you, nor should you attack it. Toraxes are
slow on their feet, so it’s easy to keep your distance from them
without confrontation.

@ CCeapons and Airmor @

Finally, the stronger your weapons and armor, the more capable
you are of beating foes and enduring excruciating circumstances
such as blasts, spitting fireballs, and the occasional falling rock. In
the narrative and walkthrough sections of this book you'll be guided
to powerful weapons and armor—many of them magical—as soon
as the appropriate paths in the game’s plot are open to you. (In
some cases, you need to have completed certain parts of the game
and acquired certain items in order to gain entry to an area contain-
ing more powerful weapons and armor.)

P Later in the game, after you receive the Key of Scion from

ee

Vividos, you may take a side trip to the fabled “Secret Trea-

sure Koom,” which is filled with chests and boxes containing
loads of powerful weapons, armor, spells, and other useful items—
many of them magical!

19

 

@ Pagan: Citina VILI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide
@ Onward Go: @

It’s time to face the GQuardian’s cruel, complex world, Avatar. The
journey that lies ahead will be long and hard, but with what you’ve
learned here you are ready to begin. You know that despite your
virtuous upbringing, you must steal in order to survive. You’ve
learned how to detect levers and chest traps, and how to disarm
them. You’ve learned that your bedroll and your key ring are your
two best friends. You’ve been advised on how to build your Strength
and Dexterity as quickly as possible, and about how to squeeze the
most capacity out of your knapsack. You are ready, Avatar.
Go now, stay alert, and remember—save often.

®

 

This (orld Dot Mine:
The Story of Pagan

a Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

® prologue: Al Waking Nightmare @

It began as a nightmare.

One minute he was sleeping peacefully, the next he felt himself
being lifted, lifted, so high into the heavens he felt dizzy. His bed
had turned into a gargantuan, fiery red hand, each finger twice his
own height. He stood unsteadily on the palm and, looking down,
saw a wrist leading to an enormous forearm leading to...nothing.
No, not exactly nothing. There was in fact a strange star—a penta-
gram, to be exact—at the base of the mysterious floating appendage.
It was as though this great hand and wrist and arm with its surreal
origin had reached out of thin air and plucked him from slumber
and carried him away.

In fact, that was precisely what was happening, but the Avatar
knew well the powers of deep sleep, was certain it was only a night-
mare—albeit the worst in memory.... His certainty started breaking
down, however, when he heard the Voice. Booming, thunderous, it
sent a chill down his spine.

“YOU HAVE BEEN A THORN IN MY SIDE FOR FAR TOO LONG,
AVATAR. YOUR TWO WORLDS WILL BE CRUSHED—BRITANNIA FIRST,
THEN EARTH. I SHALL PARADE YOU BEFORE THEIK CONQUERED
PEOPLES AS THE FALLEN IDOL OF A PATHETIC IDEAL. I BANISH
YOU TO THE WORLD OF PAGAN. NO ONE HERE,” taunted the voice
cruelly, “KNOWS OF THE AVATAR.”

3&

 

 

q Qhapter 2 Stranger in a Strange Place

 

4)

The Voice exploded into mirthless laughter and suddenly his
world—this strange floating hand in which he tottered like an infant
on wobbly legs—fell away.

He was falling...falling...

ee

“Ba oe ae
BGS whys | tee
at Wa ty saa

+ : * *
dé finger PtisF

Nagle ict Ween ey i3 ty
fhe, 208 Cxankty roti
S a 3 y s *

rn oA 4)

uf
pes as , Se Th ’ ep Roy, ey
vt

8

Are hes Sat y
mi Saye De a2

Ye Ta Uy
PAR alt

%,

 

Stranger ina Strange
Place

e came to slowly, his eyes fluttering open.
He was lying flat on his back. Above, he saw sky. Dark
and curiously overcast, more purple than blue in color. He
felt queérly sodden and exhausted, as though he had swum across
a great sea. Such a vivid nightmare! Blessed joy, it was only that
after all, a nightmare. He closed his eyes and willed his mind to
clear, to let go of the water-logged clothes he imagined himself
wearing...the strange crackling sound he heard and the smell of a
wood fire...the pungent aroma of...fish. Raw and cooked alike, lin-
gering in the smoky air. His stomach at once lurched and groaned
with revulsion and hunger. Wake up, Avatar, he told himself.

He opened his eyes fully and gasped at what he saw. An old man,
with a weary but kind face, was standing beside him, no more than
an arm’s length away, staring at him. The man was dressed in a
simple, tattered brown tunic. He was eyeing the Avatar with a mix-
ture of curiosity and evident concern. Mindful of the Avatar’s surprise
and confusion, the aged man spoke first. “Hello, there.”

“Who are you?” said the Avatar.

“I am Devon, my strange friend. And I am glad to see you are
feeling better, Stencil.”

“How did you know my name?”

“I am sorry. I did not mean to pry, but when I found you, I knew
not who you were. I am afraid I read through your logbook and
discovered your name. Please forgive me.”

The Avatar Stencil, although surprised, was not precisely angry
with this man named Devon. Somehow, he sensed goodness in
him. A certain quiet grace, a peacefulness...and a power. It was in

23

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

Fe |
7 4 than 7

it

wisit? tat in -€he? Te aa
eT) al

PELL AES Arete Daa ral

 

his eyes. While he appeared humble, there was something more
there, something deeper, stronger. Stencil shook himself to full
wakefulness.

“Where am I?” he asked.

“Why, on the shore, friend.”

“Shore of what?”

“The shore of Tenebrae, of course, upon the Sea of Rains.”

Stencil scratch his head. “Sea of Rains?”

“Obviously you don’t spend time away for the city. The story goes
that the rains are quite great the farther you go from the shore. It is
supposed to have something to do with Mordea’s powers. Part of
her role as ruling Tempest is to control the rain over the city.”

“Tenebrae,” Stencil repeated. “What is Tenebrae?”

“Aye, Tenebrae, the City of Eternal Twilight. They say you'll never
find a more lovely place and I do not disagree, save for one place.
But I will say this, the farther I am from the Lady, the better | feel. I
can tell by your questions that you are not from this land. Come
you from another island? Or perhaps some place that is even a
greater distance away.”

Stencil hesitated before answering. “Yes. That’s right. I am from
far away.”

“I suspected as much, my friend, for your questions are most
unusual. I must confess that I’m but a simple fisherman, and a
poor source of information about city ways and such. I am sure
there must be someone else who can tell you more.” He thought a

26

@ Qhapter2 Stranger ina Strange Place ®

moment. “Why, I know just the person. When you get to town, visit
Bentic, in the Library. My friend knows practically all there is to
know about our land and its people. Yes, he can certainly help you.”
The fisherman, Stencil could see, was plainly happy to be of use to
him.

“You mentioned a Lady someone or other,” Stencil said. “Who
is she?”

“You mean Lady Mordea,” Devon said. “She is the Tempest ruler
of the city. Others call her a tyrant. I did not agree with that opinion.
Until recently.”

“What changed your mind?”

The fisherman hesitated for a moment, as though considering
whether or not to say more. He eyed Stencil carefully and gave a
little sigh, then continued. “Lately, the Lady has taken to eliminat-
ing dissenters. She has them executed—beheaded on the docks.
At first no one was killed but criminals, but soon, anyone who showed
disagreement was put to the block. I fear for the freedom of the
people.”

“She sounds like a tyrant, all right,” Stencil said. It dawned on
him all at once that he still had no idea how he’d gotten here. “Hey,
what happened to me?”

Devon shrugged expansively. “I am unsure, my friend. I found
your water-logged body in the deeps of Lurker’s domain. What hap-
pened before remains a mystery. I discovered you in one of my
nets while pulling them in.”

“The Lurker’s domain?”

“Aye, the sea. You were drowning in it, my friend. Any longer in it
would not only have meant death, but then you would have had to
walk the ocean floor for eternity to fulfill the Pact with Lithos.”

Stencil could believe the first part, but that second part, about
roaming the sea for eternity, sounded a little crazy to him. This
must have showed on his face.

“Truth. Ages ago, our people forged a Pact with Lithos. But you
will learn more about that later, in town, when you talk to others.”

Was this really happening to him? Indeed, his clothes were still
damp. And his body ached. If this was still a dream, would he be
aware of these unarquable facts? Would he feel the warmth of
Devon’s fire, smell the wood burning? He did not think so. What on
earth had happened to him? The Voice belonging to the terrible
hand that seemingly dropped him here could only belong to one
entity. The Guardian, of course. Had the Guardian finally gotten
him exactly where he wanted him—in his, the Guardian’s, domain?
So it seemed. Damn his fate.

“I must go,” Stencil said abruptly. The old man looked at him
with an oddly knowing expression, as though to say, “Do as you
must, but we will meet again.”

2]

 

Pagan: Citina VILI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

>

“Farewell, friend Stencil. Know that you are welcome to stay with
me for as long as you need. My food and provisions are yours until
you wish to head for the city. Be careful in your travels, for I fear
you will encounter much violence.”

Stencil expressed his gratitude. “I am hungry. And | will need
some supplies if I’m going exploring.”

“What's mine is yours,” Devon urged.

Stencil took him at his word, and helped himself to some fish. It
tasted good and it made him feel stronger. He rolled up Devon’s
bedroll and dropped it in his knapsack. He inspected Devon’s boat
and thought of asking the old man if he could take it. But when he
looked out to sea, and saw the storms raging in the near distance,
he thought otherwise. No, Stencil thought, if the answer to his mys-
terious arrival on this strange place is anywhere, it is probably close
at hand rather than out there.

Just as he was about to start off, Devon tapped his shoulder and
pointed west, to what looked like some sort of landing or pier. “I
can already see a crowd gathering on the dock. That can only mean
trouble.”

Indeed, a small procession was making its way to the end of the
pier. Stencil would investigate, but first he wanted to get his bear-
ings in the immediate vicinity.

”Thank you for your kindness, Devon,” Stencil said. Shouldering
his pack, he headed east, along the strange, volcanic rock shore.
He was careful to stay on the hard part along the edge. Eventually,
he came to a wall. No doubt the town Devon called Tenebrae lies
on the other side. He would have to ee way in. Turning around,
he spotted a small box almost hidden ‘Dehind a tree trunk over-
grown with strange mushrooms. He opened the box. Inside, he found
two potions—one red, one yellow—and a key. He took the key and
the potions and climbed up a small embankment. He headed north-
west, back toward the pier with its small gathering. In short time, he
was sidetracked, coming upon what was left of a small, wooden
home. He stepped into the shell-like remains of the place and glanced
around at the debris scattered everywhere. In the left corner, he
found a chest. He tried opening it, but it was locked. Was this the
chest to which his newly acquired key belonged? He inserted the
key and twisted. The key turned home with a satisfying click. He
opened the chest—and was knocked off his feet by an explosion.

The chest had been trapped. He scolded himself for being so
eager and careless. Here not even an hour and he was already
stumbling like an inexperienced fool into traps! Nonetheless, he
searched the chest and found a row of strange orange disks on the
remains of what had once been a human being. Shifting a skull
aside, he was overjoyed to find a helmet that fit on his head almost
perfectly. He eyed the disks again. Still smarting from the blast, he
was uncertain whether or not to risk touching one. The disks were

28

Co

Chapter 2 Stranger ina Strange Place

 

 

flat and smooth. They looked as though they were meant for flight,
to be whirled in the air with a flick of the wrist. He decided to do
just that. He lifted and immediately tossed it through the dilapidated
doorway through which he’d stepped. The disk landed and at once
exploded in a great ball of fire. Indeed, these little disks were useful,
and he took them, being careful not to drop one.

He hurried west, back toward the pier. Up close, he saw that it
was indeed a dock. There was activity on it, several people gath-
ered in what looked like some sort of ritual. As he neared the steps
leading onto the dock, two barrels beside the steps caught his eye.
Quickly, he checked them. In the first barrel he found a box, in
which he found a dagger, which he took. In the second, he found
mushrooms and a scroll. He read the scroll quickly, glancing once
at the dock to make sure that the group there was still assembled.
The scroll was addressed to this Lady Mordea Devon had spoken
of. Its author had apparently learned that an object called the Skull
of Quakes had been stolen from a place called the Upper Cata-
combs, and was rumored now to be stashed in another place called
the Shrine. It was signed by one Lieutenant Vittek. Stencil, with his
highly developed sense of recall, made a mental note of this news
and left the scroll behind.

He climbed the steps before him and strolled toward the crowd
gathered at the end of the dock, trying his best to appear incon-
spicuous. Up close, he got a clearer picture of what was about to
happen. At the end of the dock, a man kneeled before a large
chopping block. A scantily clad warrior woman with blond hair stood

2)

Pagan: Citing VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

e ~®

beside him, gripping a long axe in her strong-looking hands. A
grieving woman, the man’s companion, Stencil guessed, stood—
no, was being held back by a quard—off to the side. Another guard,
this one looking more official, stood nearby as well. Beside him, a
rather official, self-important-looking man dressed in an absurd
purple outfit was standing tall with his nose in the air. And finally,
there stood a severe-looking woman dressed in a long white gown
and wearing a golden crown, some sort of royalty no doubt, the
person around whom this group seemed to revolve. Was this the
Lady Mordea that Devon had called a tyrant?

The man in purple spoke. “Toran, you have been accused of blas-
phemy against our Lady Mordea and sentenced to death by
beheading. Have you any final words?”

The kneeling man responded. “I shall die as I have lived...with
honor. When I face Lithos, he will not find me wanting.”

The purple-attired man was outraged. “A man of honor would not
have insulted his lady with seditious rumors!”

Taking a step forward, the regal woman grinned malevolently at
the kneeling man. “I’m afraid that Lithos will not find you at all...for
your grave shall be a watery one. The Lurker is not kind to the ones
he acquires!”

Beside her, the quard holding back the sobbing woman blanched.
“But this is forbidden, Lady. The Ritual of the Interment is sacred.”

“Do not question my decision, Tarna. | am sure that Lithos would
not want this one’s worthless spirit in his domain.”

“Nol” cried the sobbing woman, shaking off her quard and reach-
ing out to Toran.

“Back, woman,” the senior guardsman ordered.

The Lady Mordea smiled. “Perform your task, Executioner.”

With that, the blond warrior raised her axe and brought it down
squarely in the middle of the condemned man Toran’s head, which
fell onto the dock with a terrible thud and rolled off the edge of the
pier, into the deep blue sea.

An instant later, a brilliant flash of lightning cracked through the
sky.

“My husband!” cried the grieving woman, hysterical now.

There was a churning in the water at the pier’s edge, where the
head had fallen in. From the sea’s dark depth there emerged the
huge, unseeing, wormlike head of what could only be this so-called
Lurker. It groaned with what Stencil perceived as a cry of pleasure
and thanks, then it vanished beneath the surface with the same
unexpected suddenness with which it had arrived.

Astonished, Stencil gaped from person to person. No one seemed
even to notice him. Except the quard, that is. “Stand aside,” the
guard shouted at him. “Let Lady Mordea pass.”

30

Chapter 2 Stranger in a Strange Place

 

 

He stepped aside and the Lady passed by without so much as a
glance his way. Falling in behind her, her entourage, save for the
one guard, followed her off the dock and onto a stone road that
Stencil could now see led to a guarded gate that let into a huge,
walled-off city. He started to follow the group but didn’t get more
than a few steps before he was made to stop.

“Halt,” the guard ordered. “I have never seen you around here,
stranger. Identify yourself and your business in Tenebrae.” Stencil,
still in a state of shock over what he’d just witnessed and hardly
used to being talked to in this way, was only half-listening. “What
just happened here?”

“The execution is none of your business. Just be glad that a trea-
sonous, despicable criminal has been properly punished. Now
answer the question.”

“Right. I go by Stencil.”

“Well met, Stencil. And where do you hail from?”

“A place far away.”

“Another land, then. I admit your clothes are unusual, but I was
not aware that there were other cities. Well, I suggest you quickly
learn the customs of this city. What is your business here?”

“To return home,” Stencil said, without a moment’s hesitation.

“Then what in the Lady’s name are you doing wandering around
here? I suggest you quickly find your way. You may go about your
business. Please move along and do not disturb the widow.”

W

Pagan: Citina VILI— The Citimate Strategn Guide

Xe ®

Stencil nodded and turned and proceeded along the stone road
leading into the great walied-off city. Ten feet from the town’s gate
he was abruptly stopped in his tracks by another quard. “Halt,
stranger! I have seen many strange things in my time, but I’ve never
seen the likes of ya. What be yer name, stranger?”

Enough of this, already! Stencil, an outright celebrated hero, was
in no way accustomed to this sort of detestable treatment. He stood
tall and lifted his strong chin and met the quard’s ratty eyes dead on.

“I am the Avatar!”

The guard was unfazed by this proclamation. “The Avatar? Blimey,
ya Say it like ya think yer important or somethin’. Listen, bloke, if
you don’t want to find yerself in the belly of the Lurker, yer'll soon
change that tone of yers.”

For the first time since this whole bad dream had begun, the full
impact of Stencil’s fear—that he really had been plucked from his
world and dropped into the Guardian’s—hit him like a kick in the
gut. He’d try another approach. “What is this city?”

The guard’s pale cheeks bloomed red roses. “What do ya mean,
‘What city is this?’ Do ya have a brain fever. It’s only the largest pile
of bricks in the known world. Tenebrae, it is! And don’t you go
getting into trouble.”

On that note, Stencil gave an apologetic nod and bid farewell.
The guard merely grunted.

He turned to face the great open gate of Tenebrae. With a sense
of dark rebellion he had never before known, a feeling of
otherworldly disposition that somehow befitted his character with
sudden exactness, rather like a new set of strange and enigmatic
armor tailored expressly for him, Stencil strode through the great
stone entrance, into the city of Tenebrae.

 

Ss

 

The City of Tenebrae

s he crossed the city gate’s threshold, the Guardian’s voice

boomed in the sky like a great thunderstorm. “YES, AVA-

TAR, SEEK A WAY HOME!” it taunted. Then, silence. It was

one just as quickly as it had come. Stencil let himself breathe

again. Indeed, that was precisely what he was going to do—find a

way off this strange land and back into the mostly safe confines of
his beloved Britannia. Now, where to go first?

The fisherman Devon had suggested he seek out the Librarian,
Bentic. That was what he would do, then, and find out whatever
else he could along the way. Stencil strolled along the main road
into town, taking in his surroundings. The city grounds were land-
scaped with shrubbery, lawns, trees, and statues. The sidewalk was
fashioned of stone, moss covered in some places. The first quard
he met inside the city explained to him the city’s plan. “Poor sods
to the west,” the guard explained coolly, “rich folks to the east.
That’s where the Library is.” The Palace, he told Stencil, lay to the
north; however, he warned Stencil to stay out of it for it would only
lead him to trouble.

Other guards he encountered in town offered him little or no infor-
mation. Most merely looked at him with a mixture of suspicion and
amusement. So, the Library was to the east. Very well. Stencil none-
theless wanted to explore the west first, the area in which the first
guard had said the town’s lower-class lived. In his lifetime, Stencil had
learned that a town’s so-called working class, its real people, were
often more than willing to discuss with a stranger their land’s history,
its organization, and, most important of all, its gossip and rumors.

He turned west and headed through the gate, into west Tenebrae.

3

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

ee

ei at
See eu! thea

~*~

gaat VP sf

‘Ana Ak dt ye Pats poo

PCCP /
ree,

 

 

@ (est Tenebrae

“ENJOYING YOUR STAY ON PAGAN, AVATAR?” boomed the Guardian’s
voice again. Was the Guardian going to taunt him like this every
time he moved? Stencil decided to ignore his greatest foe’s petty
sarcasm and concentrate on matters at hand.

He roamed westward and a little to the south. The first building
he came to was open. Inside, he found the tall, scantily dressed
woman who had chopped off the head of the man named Toran,
out on the windy dock just minutes before.

“Greetings,” Stencil said.

“I am Shaana,” the woman coolly declared. She was still holding
her axe, Stencil observed, and appeared to be practicing on a rug-
ged dummy mounted on an upright stand.

“Nice axe,” Stencil said, ever the charmer.

“Yes, it is.” She did not look his way when she spoke, just kept on
hacking away at her dummy. He decided to try the direct approach.

“Who was the man you killed?” he said, even though he already
knew the man’s name.

This time she looked at him. It wasn’t pretty. “You must be an
imbecile to think that I know, or desire to know, anything of whom
I execute. Even were I tested, there are too many to remember.
Why are you so concerned about me and my victims?”

“Merely curious.”

She grunted. “I am not here to satisfy your idle curiosity, stranger.
One would think you were employed as a Scholar, the way you
waste time with useless banter.”

¥

 

Qhapter 3 The City of Tenebrae ®

With that she flat-out ignored Stencil. Which was fine with him,
for when she turned her back he stealthily ducked into the next
room. He saw a hanging tapestry partition and slipped behind it.
Her bedroom. He searched the room quickly and quietly, lest he
draw the Amazon’s attention to his snooping. On her bedside table
he found a book. It was of no interest to him; however beneath it,
he found a key. Beside her bed he saw a chest. Should he try the
key on it?

The Avatar was torn. A thief he was not. But then again, this was
not his world. Indeed, where he hailed from he was a man of high
standing and even higher virtues. But had he asked to be plunged
into this terrible world? He had not. Had he been invited here, which
was a silly question, but one he worked over in his mind anyway,
would he have come so unprepared? Certainly not. Enough of this
to-be-or-not-to-be-a-thief debating. If ever he hoped to get the hell
off this rock he would have to change his ways. If that meant steal-
ing, then so be it. This almost sinister change of character was in
fact the crystallization of the strange feeling that had come over
him as he’d strolled for the first time through the gates of Tenebrae.
Fight fire with fire, as they say. Or in this case, evil with evil.

He tried the key on the chest and it worked. He opened the chest
and before he could think twice about what he was doing, the chest
exploded. Once again, he had been careless. Still, he was hardly
affected by the blast, nothing a quick nap wouldn’t take care of.
And besides, it was worth it, for inside the chest he found a

+

 

Pagan: Citina VILI—The Citimate Strategy Guide ®

marvelous axe, which he snatched, leaving behind the meager
dagger he’d found by the docks. He left Shaana’s home and resumed
exploring this side of town.

A little farther along he came to a stone and brown-shingle inn.
Inside he found a waitress, a bartender, and a few patrons sitting at
tables and drinking ale, obviously in their cups. The bartender
introduced himself as Orlock. He was friendly, and eager to regale
Stencil with stories about the town. Orlock said that his great
grandfather had come across the lost treasure of the ancient Kings—
“gold beyond yer wildest dreams.” Plaqued by nightmares after he’d
stolen the treasure, his great grandfather had buried it to relieve his
suffering. And according to legend, no one had found it yet. He
then gave Stencil a brief oral history of Tenebrae. “In the early days
the people were attacked by those filthy Necromancers. The mages
of death commanded their minions of undead to kill everyone in
town, including my great great great grandfather, John Blowhard.”

“Oh no, Orlock’s telling tales again.” The waitress had come up
to the bar to order.

Seizing the break in conversation, Stencil excused himself and
had a look around. Through an unlocked door in the south wall of
the inn he found a storeroom, which led to a bedroom.

Looking over his shoulder he saw that he had gone unnoticed.
Inside the room he found a chest, which contained the book Moriens:
Necromancer, Prophet, Hero. Stencil read this tome with great
interest. Inside the chest he found a number of useless objects and
some clothing, including a shirt gown. He decided against this one

 

&

 

& Chapter 3 The City of Tenebrae ®

and took instead the simple blue shirt lying before the chest. It fit
nicely and protected Stencil’s until-now nearly naked body.

Through the inn’s west-wall door, down a short hall, he found a
room with a fireplace. In a desk drawer he found a jeweled neck-
lace, which he snatched with the idea of selling the gaudy adornment
for money if necessary.

Roaming again, Stencil met a friendly man named Korick, the
town’s blacksmith. Korick offered to sell Stencil weapons and armor,
but Stencil declined.

He’d been having luck on his own and would hope for more of
the same. During their talk, Korick told Stencil how he felt the town
was falling apart. “There was a great fire in west Tenebrae, and the
old man that lived in one of the houses died. Some say he haunts
the place to this very day.” Stencil made a mental note to be on the
lookout for such a place and bid the man farewell.

It didn’t take long before he found it. It was in the extreme north-
west part of west Tenebrae, and indeed, it was quarded by a spirit.
Oddly, the visage seemed to be guarding a pile of sticks, of all
things. Now what was so special about a pile of sticks, Stencil won-
dered.

His instinct was to draw his weapon; however, he decided to try
the peaceful approach first and see what happened. While the spirit
did not bother him, several ghouls sprang from the ground and
began a slow approach toward him. Quickly, Stencil skirted them
and sought shelter, however temporary, in what remained of the
burned-down house. In the rear he found a stone staircase. He went

 

Pagan: Citina VILI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

 

downstairs and found a woman who greeted him coldly and made
fun of his attire. Poor Stencil was feeling so lost and confused as it
was, he didn’t need this sort of reception. Without further words,
he went back upstairs. Strange woman, he thought, living in the
basement of this ghoul-ridden place. No sooner had he thought
this, than he came face to face with a ghoul that had managed to
drag its corroded body inside. He drew his newfound axe and after
several mighty strokes managed to slay the creature. Not without
some damage to himself, though. Stencil opened his pack and lay
on his bedroll, resting for a short while. When he awoke he felt
refreshed and ready to continue. There was nothing here of
interest...or was there? Just as he was about to leave he noticed a
suspiciously arranged pile of wood and debris to the right of the
doorway. Indeed, beneath the debris, which he tossed aside, he
uncovered a pit of some sort.

He leaped down into it and found a bag containing sixty-seven
Obsidian coins. He snatched the bag, then stood on a pile of wood
below the center of the pit opening and climbed back up out of the
secret room.

He left the haunted house and returned to central Tenebrae, back-
tracking the way he’d come. He knew he should seek this Bentic,
the Librarian, but the lure of exploring a little to the north, where
the quard had said earlier that the Palace lay, was too tempting to
pass by. Just a quick peek, he told himself, strolling through the
north gate, onto the Palace grounds.

38

Chapter 3 The City of Tenebrae

 

 

@ The Palace @

On either side of the Palace entrance there stood a small gate tower.
He tried the door on the right. It opened. The guard out front did
not seem to notice. Stencil went inside. Near the entrance he found
a barrel filled with edibles. Since he was not hungry, he passed
them up and went straight for the chest in the room. Ready for a
trap, he stood as far away as possible from the chest and opened it—
and once more was knocked down by an explosion. This was turning
into a routine. Luckily, this chest contained some useful potions.
He drank the red potion at once to recover his strength from the
blast, and he put the purple potion in his pack. He knew from expe-
rience that the purple potion would temporarily protect him from
damage in combat against particularly difficult foes. He had a feel-
ing that such encounters were many and just around the
corner—best to be prepared. The yellow potion he skipped, as it
was useful for healing only a small measure of his strength, and it
wasn’t worth the weight it would add to his knapsack. He found a
sack with nineteen Obsidian coins and took those, but left the chain
helmet and dagger.

Upstairs in the right-hand gate tower he found some light armor,
which he exchanged for the simple shirt he’d lifted earlier, and an
open log book. While its latest entry was of no interest to him, its
contents were organized by time-cycle, which were listed in this
order: Bloodwatch, Firstebb, DayTide, Threemoons, Lastebb,
Eventide.

39

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

®

So this was how they tracked time in this strange place, Stencil
observed. Good to Know.

He crossed the short connecting bridge to the left-hand gate and
went inside—and was overjoyed by what he found. Scrolls! Two of
them, in fact. He inspected them: the first was a Scroll of Trap
Detection, and the second a Scroll of Trap Destruction. He took
them and went downstairs, where he found another chest, this one
locked. On the nearby desk he found a key, which fitted the lock.
Using his just-acquired Scroll of Trap Detection, he determined that
the chest was not trapped. It figured. Inside he found some musty
clothes, which he skipped, and a Bottle of Oil, which he took.

He exited the gate tower and proceeded north, across a heavy
wooden bridge and into the richly furnished and decorated Palace.
The floor was covered in black and red tile. Two quards stood on
either side of a chamber entrance. Smiling to the unsmiling guards,
Stencil casually sauntered to the right, through a pantry and into a
kitchen. He climbed a set of stairs and found himself before a long
room and another doorway that led to an elevated quard tower. He
inspected the tower first and found, inside a basket hidden inside
one of three barrels, a key ring. A huge smile spread across his
face. If ever there were a great invention, it was the simple key ring.
Like magic, it made sorting through keys a cinch, and kept clutter
to a minimum. Since he’d snatched a few keys already, he attached
them to the key ring. Although he’d used the Keys already and prob-
ably wouldn’t need them anymore, it never hurt to hang onto them,
especially since having the key ring made them so easy to carry and
added no more weight than its own to his inventory.

He left the small room through the west door and proceeded past
two guards to the quard tower opposite. “Move along,” one of the
guards mumbled. It was surprising that neither quard stopped him
to ask what he was doing here. Perhaps they allowed the townsfolk
to tour the Palace unattended? Odd, but Stencil was nonetheless
grateful for their laxness. In the second tower he found nothing of
use. He exited and started across the immense rooftop for the other
side. Halfway there, he stopped. In the front-center section of the
rooftop he saw a training area, populated with a circle of practice
dummies, all standing at attention—albeit halfheartedly. What caught
Stencil’s eye and caused his own heart to race excitedly were not
these baggy bodies, but rather the knapsack sitting on the table in
the center of the circle, begging to be taken. The guards in front
were not looking. He opened the knapsack. Inside he found noth-
ing but wine, to which he was indifferent. He removed all three
bottles and placed them on the table.

What did make a difference was the knapsack itself. With it, Sten-
cil could in effect increase his overall capacity by putting this
knapsack inside the one he’d started out with—creating a Knap-
sack in a knapsack.

ae

40

ae Chapter 3 The City of Tenebrae ®

A few paces beyond the training circle he saw what could only be
a Recall Pad—a low platform to which he could teleport himself
from another location...provided, of course, he possessed the knowl-
edge or, if history were any lesson, the necessary object or spell or
whatever it was that he needed to make the pad’s conveyor magic
happen. In his many years of adventuring, he’d spent who knows
how many hours bouncing between Recall Pads similar to this one,
like some crazy ethereal commuter.

The sight of it was at once hopeful and depressing, and he
approached it with wary respect. On the one hand, it meant that
whatever this place was, getting around via Recall Pads would make
his travels easier. On the other hand, it implied that this strange
place was huge, more likely than not. Very huge. As he neared the
low, silent pad it started to rise. It lifted perhaps only an inch, and
began pulsing and glittering. This was a welcome sign, for it meant
that he could return to this very place at will...once, of course, he
figured out how; had he not gotten close enough to the pad, it
would have remained inactive, and therefore useless to him later, if
he should need to return to it.

Resting on a nearby table he saw a brown leather-bound book,
titled The Final Sunlight, by Nolandru, the blind idiot of Tenebrae.
He opened and read it, committing it to memory. The book detailed
a great battle between Pagan and Zealan, and the coming of the
Titans. It made little sense but Stencil felt certain that that would
change the more he learned about the Guardian’s domain. He put

 

 

#1

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

& -®

the book down and proceeded to the rear, right-hand guard tower.
Inside, he found some more coins in a drawer and two candles,
which he left behind. In the opposite guard tower he found another
book in a drawer; however, this one seemed more like a pulp novel
for passing long hours on shift, rather than a useful book with infor-
mation he could use. He descended the stairway to the palace’s
first floor once more. He came to two doors, one south, the other
east. On the wall beside the south door a plaque announced, “PAL-
ACE BARRACKS.” He went inside, joining a guard in the room. He
casually browsed a book titled The Big Book of Adventure, by Sladek,
which was sitting on a nearby table. It contained much useful infor-
mation, presumably offered to adventuring guardsmen. From it he
learned this:

@ puzzles Those with levers are usually not harmful. Watching

one’s surroundings usually reveals clues. Also, the central le-

vers usually reset the puzzle.

Traps Be wary of a chest sitting out in the open, especially if it

has many corpses around it.

Chests of Loot Open at your own risk. Be sure to cast spells of

trap detection before opening.

Trick Books Judge these tomes by their cover, for they read dif-

ferently than other books.

Mazes Always mark your path! Use rocks or wood, and beware

of treasure, as it is there to lead you from your determined

path.

@ spell Qhits Read only the text on the outside of scrolls to iden-
tify them—once you open a spell and read it fully its magic will
be released immediately.

Noted. Stencil strolled past the guard and made his way down a
flight of stairs. He came upon an enormous storeroom. He found
great quantities of provisions; however, he wasn’t hungry so he ate
none of it. On the northern wall he found a lever, which he pulled.
A heavy door in the middle of the wall dropped and he went through
its opening. Inside, he found what could only be a combination
torture chamber/jail house. Pity the man who was banished here,
he thought with a shiver. Finding nothing of use he exited double-
time, and returned upstairs to the barracks. The guard who had
been in the room with him just moments ago was gone, and Stencil
quickly searched the room. Beneath a pillow on the last bed ina
row of beds he found a key, which he snapped onto his key ring. In
the front, left-hand corner of the palace he entered a small room.
Inside he found a locked chest, which none of his keys opened. He
tried the key from under the pillow on a pair of double doors and
they worked, giving him access to a room filled with a variety of
armor, weapons, and supplies. If only there wasn’t a guard standing
in the corner, keeping a keen eye on him.

2

Chapter 3 The City of Tenebrae »®

ee
Oh well, maybe later he’d come back. Right now, he decided to
get back on the track: finding the Librarian Bentic. He backtracked
over the wooden bridge and returned to central Tenebrae, then
strode through the east gate into east Tenebrae, in search of the
Library.

@ Gast Tenebrae @

True to the guard’s description, east Tenebrae, compared to west
Tenebrae, was like comparing night and day. Well, perhaps apples
and oranges was a better comparison, for Devon had explained
after all that the world he’d found himself in was one bathed in
eternal twilight, forever caught between true day and night. Indeed,
east Tenebrae was a richer place than west Tenebrae. The build-
ings were in good shape, many of them stone, with fenced-in yards
and gardens.

The first house he came to, a single-story brown building with an
awning of some sort over its entrance, was unoccupied. It did not
look like a library, but Stencil investigated anyway. He found noth-
ing of use upstairs and went downstairs, winding up in a
suspicious-looking room. In a desk he found a few coins. Looking
around, he determined that the room possibly led to another room,
but he found no secret lever to open the way. He backtracked and
searched the room upstairs, and this time found a lever hidden
among the fireplace bricks.

 

45

Pagan: Citima VITI— The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

®

ee

He pulled it and heard a grating sound but nothing seemed to
happen. He returned downstairs and, as he’d hoped, the lever had
opened a secret door. In the first room he found a cabinet, in which
he uncovered a box partially hidden beneath some clothing. It con-
tained fifteen coins, his now. The chest beside the wardrobe cabinet
was locked. In a nearby room he found its key, hidden beneath a
bedside clock. He also found a bag beside the bed, containing two
purple potions, which he snatched. Since his load was getting heavy,
he put the potions in his second knapsack. He returned to the chest
and unlocked it. Feeling well rested, he took his chances and opened
it without checking for traps. It was trapped. However, he suffered
only a small amount of damage. It was worth it, for inside he found
legging armor, and a knapsack containing some useful potions. He
drank the red one to restore his energy, but left the others. He also
left the helmet he found in the chest, for the one he was already
wearing was stronger.

Back upstairs he walked through an east-west passage that con-
nected the house to a large building. It was a training hall, he
determined, but at present it was vacant, save for the six dummies
hanging around waiting to take a beating.

He exited the house through the door he’d entered and headed
north, reasoning that a library would probably be among the larger
buildings in town, so that was what he would look for. Near the
northeast corner of east Tenebrae he saw two stone buildings. He
entered the first one, which was ringed by a low iron fence. The
door was unlocked and he entered.

A woman was sitting just inside. She seemed upset and—of
coursel, she was the woman he’d seen on the pier, the one who’d
been sobbing through the execution. He felt terrible for having
barged in on her like this and made an effort to apologize.

“Excuse me,” Stencil said. “What is your name?”

“My name is Rhian, and yours?”

“I am Stencil. I'm sorry...”

“Hello, Stencil,” Rhian said, clearly struggling with her emotions.
“I'm afraid I’m not good company just now.”

“Why do you cry?” He knew why, of course, he was just being
polite.

She told him that she was Toran’s wife. Stencil asked why he’d
been executed. She said her husband had spoken critically of the
Lady Mordea, whose wrath Toran—everyone—should fear. The Lady
did not take kindly to criticism, Rhian explained. She cried that she
was all alone now, for not only had she lost her husband, but her
son had recently left home to become a Theurgist.

“What is a Theurgist?”

“A healer,” Rhian said, a little sourly perhaps. “Oh, please do not
misunderstand me, friend Stencil, I think it is qrand that my son
should want to be a healer. I’m thrilled, really, but I am concerned

4

 

ee Chapter 3 The City of Tenebrae *®

by the suddenness of his decision. It’s just that he never showed
any sign of wanting to be a healer when he was growing up. Rather,
he simply wanted to be a gem cutter like his father. And now that he
is gone, I am left alone with no one support me. But, at least I know
he is alive and well. I can always hope he will return to his poor
widowed mother.”

“I hope he returns to you,” Stencil said. “What will you do in the
meantime, to support yourself?”

“lam a weaver. I make clothing, and because—” She paused and
pressed her clenched fist to her lips. “Oh, I cannot say without
crying—because of my husband's execution...I] have taken over the
running of his gem shop. He was the gem cutter here in town. As
my son is no longer here it’s up to me to run the shop. Would you
like to buy or sell gems?”

“Actually,” Stencil said, feeling a little uncomfortable talking about
business after what the woman had just been through, “I'd like to
sell some gems.”

Rhian apologized for not knowing very much about gems, then
inspected the few things he showed her. She offered him a low
price and he accepted—after all, he’d stolen them in the first place.
With that, he bid the woman farewell and left with his coins. Con-
tinuing north, he found the Library in the far northwest corner of
the town. Finally, he had arrived at his first determined destination.
The door was unlocked, and he went inside.

@ Bentic the Librarian @

The Library was expansive and smelled of old books and knowl-
edge. He saw a man sitting at a table, bent over an open book. The
man appeared to be deep in thought and Stencil approached him
quietly.

“Hello,” Stencil said.

Startled, the man looked up, plainly disturbed by Stencil’s inter-
ruption. “People are trying to read,” the man whispered with a huff.
Stencil was taken aback. Weren’t librarians known for their helpful-
ness? Indeed they were. Surely, this was not Bentic. He approached
another man who sat reading as well, and was reprimanded in the
same manner. Then he noticed a door, beside which there hung a
plaque that announced “QUIET.” He opened the door and entered
the room.

The room was unoccupied. At the rear of the room he saw steps
and proceeded up them. Upstairs, he found an old, friendly-looking
man sitting at a desk. The man did not look up at Stencil, yet he
seemed approachable nonetheless.

“Excuse me,” said Stencil. The man looked up with a smile.

“Well, hello. My name is Bentic. It is a word of Pagan derivation. |I
think it originally meant ‘he who toils hard’ but that is not certain. I

45

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategu Guide

 

a =>

have found a number of references to ‘Ventac’ in several older texts
and feel that this may be the root of the name ‘Bentic.’ And what is
your name, friend?”

“I am Stencil. Well met, Bentic. You said Pagan. What is that?”

“Why, that is the name of this place.”

“] thought this place was Tenebrae.”

“No, no. That is the name of this city. ‘Pagan’ is the name of this
land, this all-encompassing world upon which we all live out our
meager lives.”

“What do you do?”

“By trade, I am the Librarian of this city; however, I prefer to think
of myself as a student of life. One who spends his time observing
all facets of life. The Library is my joy. It is where I spend all my
time, studying the words left by our predecessors. You cannot be-
lieve what is in these books. They contain the wisdom of many
ages. Too many people overlook the knowledge of our past genera-
tions, and because of this we are doomed to repeat the same
mistakes over and over again.”

“Can you tell me more about the people of Tenebrae,” Stencil
asked.

It was Bentic’s opinion that the people of Tenebrae were a varied
and unusual lot. Eventually, the pair's conversation turned to the
town’s government. The old man’s voiced dropped to a mere whis-
per. “It is not quite the safe thing to discuss here. Even my interest
in knowledge and books cannot protect me from Lady Mordea. You
might say she has a rather...short temper. Why, just recently her
guards confiscated my personal diary, though I do not have any
idea why.” Bentic hastened to add that the town did have its share
of good citizens, and expressed his admiration for Devon, a man
whom he felt had more potential than he realized.

“I've met Devon,” Stencil said, feeling oddly pleased to hear Bentic
speak so highly of the man whom Stencil felt was at heart a truly
noble man. “You say he has potential?”

“Yes, I can’t put my finger on it, but there is something there.”
This was intuitively how Stencil felt about the man he’d met only
briefly. Bentic continued. “Call it a hunch, if you will. I just seem to
feel that there is something about him that suggests greater things.”

“Does Devon know how I may leave Pagan?” At this, the Librarian’s
eyes grew wide.

“Leave Pagan? My goodness, I don’t think I’ve ever heard anyone
ask for that, but then again, you don’t act, talk or dress like anyone
I’ve ever seen before.” The old man leaned back and eyed him in
much the same manner that Devon had previously, as though he
were judging him in some way. He scratched his cheek and gave a
little nod. “I can only suggest you speak to someone with more
magical ability than I. Mythran could help you.”

#6

Chapters The City of ‘Tenebrae a

Bentic told Stencil that Mythran, who lived in a small house in a
region known as the Plateau, had been known to dabble in the
various magical arts and was a Scholar, and that he often made and
sold magical scrolls and items. To find Mythran, Bentic said, leave
Tenebrae north of the Palace, and head north, following a path
through the Valley to the cave entrance. “Go through cave. It opens
on the other side of the mountain on the Plateau.”

Grateful for the old man’s hospitality and assistance, Stencil
thanked Bentic and told him he’d better be on his way.

“Come back any time, Stencil. I so love good conversations.”
With that, the old man smiled and went back to his studies.

In Bentic’s bedroom Stencil looked over some books. On the
table by the stairs he found one of particular interest, titled Adven-
ture Quarterly. It described the Forgotten Riches of Knarl, which
were hidden somewhere in a place called the Lower Catacombs. If
Stencil were to find himself in these supposed catacombs, then
indeed he would keep his eyes peeled for Knarl’s goods, which
were rumored to include magical weapons, armor, and spells.

Downstairs, he found a book on mushrooms. It stated that most
were edible. The fist-sized Blue Bulgie and the Green Capper were
delicious but were easy to confuse with the blue and green form of
the Deamon’s Paw, which can cause rashes, blisters, and general
bladder distress. A helpful mushroom known for its healing proper-
ties was the yellow and green Adventurer’s Friend, found in the
wild. While consumption of these mushrooms often restored one’s
health, they also gave the consumer a general feeling of euphoria.
The book warned travelers to stay away from the red Fire Mush-
room, which exploded when one stepped on or near it.

Keeping in mind his aim to seek Mythran, Stencil began strolling
back to central Tenebrae. He vowed to inspect on his way only
those buildings that lay directly along his path. His first stop was at
a wooden, red-shingled roof house encircled by a low wooden fence.
Inside the red-tiled house he found a man sitting at a desk. Having
learned not to disturb those deep in thought, Stencil searched the
room and found two levers, one beside the fireplace and one on
the northern wall. He pulled both and found a secret bedroom, and
access to a room in which it appeared certain unusual forms of
sorcery were practiced. On a brown pant-clad skeleton Stencil found
a key, which unlocked a chest sitting on the rooftop. The chest was
trapped, but what treasures it contained! Inside, Stencil found nine
scrolls: four Scrolls of Trap Detection, three Scrolls of Trap Destruc-
tion, one Scroll of Restoration, and one Scroll of Healing. On two
tables he found more goods: a purple potion, a Scroll of Restore
Sight, and a Scroll of Invisibility. On a nearby corpse, he found a
black potion of invisibility, a Scroll of Trap Destruction, and a Scroll
of Trap Detection. What a lucky find! He took as many of these that

 

+

¥]

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

@ ®

he could carry. The only unlucky thing on the porch was an explod-
ing book, which caused him some damage but not enough to kill
him.

The other building he investigated was a stone one with rust-
colored double doors, situated across the path from the building
he’d just departed. The building’s double doors were locked, but
this didn’t stop him. Stencil merely stood beside the house where
the roof was low and climbed up onto it. In the middle of the roof
he found steps going down. Inside, he found in a small box a scroll
that explained the virtues of potions, as follows:

Yellow Heals, but only a small measure

Ral Heals fully, but should be consumed only if one’s strength
is low; otherwise it does damage

Orange Restores Mana in times of need

Gren Tastes terrible and should be avoided

Blue Provides restful slumber

Purple Offers protection during combat and is useful against
the undead

Black Causes invisibility

In a basket on a table he found a red potion, a Scroll of Restore
Sight, and a Scroll of Invisibility. Nearly hidden by a table bearing a
statue, he found a mace, but decided to hang onto his axe rather
than trade it for the mace. Behind the stairs he found a locked
door, but was unable to find a key to open it. He went back onto the
roof, leaped off, and returned to central Tenebrae. He proceeded
north through the Palace, smiling at the guards as he went, and
exited the Palace through the rear. At the Palace’s rear quard tower
he encountered locked doors on either side; however, he managed
to heave himself onto the lower midspan that connected the towers
by standing directly beneath its front face and climbing up.

Inside he found more potions, and in the right tower, downstairs,
he found in a trapped chest some rugged armor gloves and a heavy
longsword. He took both, returned upstairs, leaped down from the
midspan, and then proceeded north, better equipped for his jour-
ney to the Plateau and Mythran the Magician.

Seeking the Mlateav and
Miothran

mmediately outside town Stencil came across a small guard

post. He decided to skip searching it and stay as close on

course as possible. Bentic said to go north, so that’s the way
he went. There was a certain ominous air about this side of town.
The ground was mostly grass and he found a worn dirt path. A little
north, a group of four or five large, green-and-gray mottled beasts
grazed lazily. Stencil avoided getting too close, adhering to the dirt
path. In short time he came across a hut, and to the left of that, a
stable, in which several of the beasts he’d seen grazing stood
huddled together. A few paces north of this strange animal farm he
came to a small house. Inside it looked lived in, but no one was
home. He opened an untrapped chest and found seventy Obsidian
coins and a sword, which he left behind because he’d already ac-
quired one.

He continued north until the path bent left. While Bentic had
definitely said he’d find the Plateau to the north, Stencil had a hunch
that this bend was the right direction to take. Still, it was better to
be sure, and since he could see that heading farther north would
end eventually with a high rock wall, he decided to make certain
that that direction, true north, wasn’t where he was supposed to go.

He came to a great pile of wood that appeared oddly out of place,
as though it were there to conceal something. Piece by piece, Sten-
cil cleared the pile. Sure enough, his perception had been right, for
behind the pile he found a cave, fronted by a veil of fine-spun cob-
web. He walked through the harmless web and into the cave.

49

 

qe Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide _»
@ The North Cave @

The small opening let onto a long, dark gray stone corridor. It looked
as though it had not been entered for a long, long time. Stencil
came upon a large open chamber, and to the right found two locked
doors. None of his keys opened either door so he went back to the
chamber for a closer look. Was this Mythran’s house? He did not
think so, for the place was plainly deserted. In the middle of the
room, the floor had fallen away. Below he could see a chamber
crawling with spiders. Since the room itself held nothing of use, he
leaped down into the spidery pit. He quickly slew two of the creeping
spiders and then searched the skeletal remains of adventurers who’d
breathed their last in this damp, cold pit. On one he found a worn
but serviceable shield; however, he had to unload a few potions
before he could take it, for his load had grown quite heavy. With a
shield, he reasoned, his chances of survival were far greater. Climbing
out of the pit proved tricky, but he finally managed to get hold of an
edge of the ceiling/floor in the corner beside the night stand. He
heaved himself up and out. With his new shield, he left the cave
and returned to the left bend in the path that he had diverged from
and followed it in a northwest direction. In short time, he came to
another cave. This one, he hoped, was the one Bentic had told him
to find.

@ Plateau Cave @

He made his way along a short, narrow tunnel that bent left at the
end. What he found he’d never before faced in all his years as the
Avatar. A wide body of water, deep by the dark looks of it, separated
him from the other side. Between the two sides he saw small, square
stone platforms sticking up out of the water. Obviously, he was
going to have to leap from one to the next to get across the water
chasm.

He took a medium leap to the first stone, the one closest to the
farthest-reaching point of the cave floor. A second medium leap,
straight ahead, put him on the second stone. Looking around, he
spotted a chest over his right shoulder, hanging against the wall of
the watery chasm. Heeding the advice he’d gotten from the scroll
he’d read earlier, Stencil decided to skip the chest, since he was
already carrying all he could. His next leap would be to the stone to
his left and a little forward of the direction he was facing. Before he
leaped, he stepped back to the very edge of the stone on which
he stood, so that he didn’t overshoot the one he was trying for. He
gave a short leap and landed squarely in the center of his intended
target. He stood once more at the rear edge of the stone he was on
before leaping to the next, then took a medium leap forward in the
direction he was facing and landed safely and squarely. His next

50

Qhapter 4 Seeking the Plateau and Mipthran

 

& ®

leap would be to his right and forward. Before he leaped, he stood
in the absolute center of the stone he was on and faced the direc-
tion he was about to leap. With a medium leap he made it to the
next stone. For the next one, he stood once more in the center of
the stone and faced right and rearward, then took a medium leap.
One more stone to go. This last one was to his left, not far from
shore. Before leaping he stood on the extreme front corner of his
present stone, then took a medium leap. His final leap was a me-
dium that landed him safely on the rocky shore alongside the cavern.
From there, he was able to work his way carefully along the water’s
edge to safe ground.

He came to a raised rock area. He found a corner suitable for
climbing and hauled himself up onto the next level. Nearby he
encountered a lightning bolt gate of some sort. Rather than try to
get through it, Stencil climbed onto a low standing platform occupied
by some skeletons. The moment he set foot on the platform he was
confronted by a ghoul that sprang from the earth. Six or seven chops
from his sword and the ghoul was no more. Still, he’d suffered
some damage from the battle, and this was no place to rest—more
ghouls had materialized on the level beneath him, which he would
have to cross to proceed. Fortunately, one of the skeletons he found
was hiding a red potion of restoration, which he drank. He found
other potions on some of the other skeletons as well. When the
ghouls below had wandered away, he jumped down and then raced
to the next elevated area and climbed onto it quickly. Sometimes,
like now, outrunning foes was smarter and faster than fighting them.

He worked his way southwest until he came upon a dilapidated
platform of some sort, bearing a long lever and chain spool. To his
left he saw a pair of high, heavy gates, barring his course. Did the
lever open the gates? He tried to pulling the lever but it seemed
stuck. He investigated the nearby grounds for clues. Across a weak-
looking rope bridge he found a broken-down room containing six
levers against one wall, and a seventh lever in a center platform. He
stood back and studied the levers for a moment, trying to deter-
mine what pattern, if any, would cause something to happen. He
noticed that three of the levers were fronted by skeletal remains or
skulls. On a hunch, he threw only those levers that were not fronted
by objects. As a result, the left set of levers pointed toward him,
and the right set of levers pointed away from him. With that, a sud-
den earthquake shook the cave and the middle lever moved by its
own power. He went back to the first lever he’d encountered on the
other side of the rickety bridge and threw it. The huge gates opened.
He raced through and skirted a pair of ghouls, then found the cave’s
exit and wound up outdoors once more. The ground here was prac-
tically covered with red mushrooms—they looked like Fire
Mushrooms, the kind Stencil recalled reading about and was warned
to avoid, for they exploded if stepped on or near.

3)

 

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide »

ee

Stepping carefully, he hung close to the great stone wall from
which he’d emerged and headed in a northern direction. The wall
eventually veered south and then north again. Rounding the corner
he could not believe his eyes. Approaching him were several exact
duplicates of—himself! It was as though he’d suddenly come upon
a gaggle of twin siblings! The duplicates, known as changelings,
made strange laughing noises in combat. As he attacked the first of
the bunch, the creature changed into a bizarre, small gray monster.
As he finished it off, the creature’s body disappeared, leaving be-
hind some Flasks of Oil and Obsidian coins. How very strange, Stencil
observed—but not for long, for the other creatures were moving in
fast. He tossed Flasks of Oil at the changelings and hacked at any
that came within his sword’s long reach. Eventually, he finished off
all five of them. Just as he was about to turn around and try an-
other course, he saw a rather large cave opening. Had the creatures
been guarding whatever lay inside? Was it Mythran they were pro-
tecting? Stencil decided to find out.

@ The Power hammer Gave @

The place was brimming with fire-spitting sconces. After some care-
ful running and dodging, he made his way deep into the twisty cavern
and found a seemingly-at-peace skeleton warrior and, just beyond
it, two chests. As he was searching the chest (which, naturally, ex-
ploded when he opened it), the nearby skeleton warrior came to
life. Quickly, Stencil drank a potion of invisibility. He probably could
have gotten past the warrior without drinking the potion, but he
didn’t want to take any chances. In the chest he found a hammer
that, judging by its glow, he determined was magical. He quickly
dropped his sword and took the hammer and raced past the skel-
eton warrior—he was, at this point, in no shape or mood for fighting.
He wanted merely to get out of this cave alive, with his new magical
weapon. More foes confronted him in the cave, including two invis-
ible warriors he could detect only by the sound of their footsteps
and their red eyes, and a large troll, all of whom he easily outran.
Outside once more, Stencil rested for a short while, then headed
south. Almost immediately he came upon a two-story house made
of wood. A strange hum seemed to hang in the air. This must be the
place, thought Stencil, as he opened the front door and walked
inside.

@ MUuthran’s Inouse @

The first room—which was more like a corridor, really—was swarm-
ing with traps. Judging by the way the spike ball traps rolled and the
lightning gates zapped regularly, Stencil estimated that if he were to
time it right, he could simply run straight through the traps without

§2

 

Chapter 4 Seeking the Plateau and Miythran _»

 

 

getting caught. Indeed, timing was everything. Just as the first light-
ning gate fired, he charged full steam ahead, racing straight through
the narrow room to the opposite end. He suffered not a single
scratch.

He walked through a dark doorway and came to what, judging by
the row of mysterious-looking objects lining either side of the foyer,
could only be the mage’s house. It was simply too weird to be any-
one else’s. The interior was intriguing and colorful. The place
appeared empty, however. He looked around. In a small room he
found a magic dagger and 137 Obsidian coins, which he took. He
saw no sign of Mythran, however, and so he went upstairs. Nowhere
in sight here, either. Looking around some more, Stencil found a
dormant Recall Pad situated on the right side of the room. It lifted
and sparkled as he neared it, indicating that it was now committed
to memory. Beyond the Recall Pad he saw a door. It led to a sus-
pended bridge that gave the strange illusion of spanning the very
heavens; he was surrounded by absolute space and stars, and it
was here that he found the elderly mage Mythran, tottering along all
hunched over and with a long staff in one hand, mumbling to him-
self and stroking his long white beard with the other hand.

The old man’s eyes were the deepest blue Stencil had ever seen,
and his hands were knotted yet appeared very strong, rather like
petrified wood. The mage exuded an aura of absolute peace and
serenity, and this made Stencil feel comfortable almost at once.
Was he really standing in free space, above the universe, or was it
just an illusion...

3

 

Pagan: Citima VITI— The Citimate Strategu Guide

8

 

“Hello,” the old man said.

“Hello,” said Stencil; he was certain this was Mythran, but he
decided to make sure. “May I ask your name?”

“I am Mythran,” said the mage. “Can I be of assistance?”

“I have many questions,” Stencil said.

This delighted Mythran. “I cannot refuse one who has traversed
ghoul-filled passages to meet with my hospitality. What are some of
these questions?”

Stencil got right to the point. “How can I leave Pagan?” The old
man was taken aback. And said so. He asked Stencil if this was
some sort of test, or was he serious. Stencil told him he was dead
serious.

With that, the mage Mythran warned Stencil that his goal was a
tremendous one, and that in order for him to leave one world, this
one, for another, his own, then it was the power of the Titans he
would have to face. Therefore, Mythran explained, the best place to
start was with one of the schools of magic.

“Have you spoken with the Necromancers?” Mythran asked.

Stencil said that he had not, and Mythran told him that he should
do so, at once. “Speak with Vividos about becoming an apprentice
once Lothian has passed on her powers to him. I realize the thought
of dealing with the Ritual of Death may seem distasteful, but I ex-
pect it is something to which you must become accustomed if you
wish to succeed.”

Mythran told Stencil that he could find the Necromancers in the
Cemetery, which he could get to by taking the East Road out of

54

Qhapter 4 Seeking the Plateau and Miuthran

 

@ ®

Tenebrae. He warned Stencil to be careful, for the Cemetery was
crawling with undead.

“May you fare well, stranger,” Mythran said. “If there is anything in
my house that will aid you, feel free to help yourself. Wait. Before
you go, my friend, I wish to give you two items that will assist you.
The first is an Item of Recall.” Like magic, the small red object
appeared in his knapsack. “When you find yourself in trouble you
may use this item to teleport to my front door.” He told Stencil that
the Item of Recall would enable him to teleport to other Recall Pads
he found as well. The second item he gave Stencil was a red potion;
however, Stencil did not drink it, for he was in fine condition.

He thanked Mythran for his kindness and information, then used
the Item of Recall to teleport himself back to the Palace rooftop and
central Tenebrae.

 

_
Henke?

ey ates at
= ~ a C3
yey Ss oe

at Sgt
oy Uge

PE x. 9 ae
ah NP Ce yst

ae

62% >
eS ES

 

 

The Alvatar’s
Apprenticeship

pon materializing on the Palace rooftop, Stencil made his

way back to the Cemetery by traveling first to east Tenebrae,

then through the far east Tenebraen gates. “Watch for
undead,” the city guards warned as Stencil passed them. Mythran
had told Stencil that the Cemetery lay to the east of the city, and
north. His new magic dagger, which he’d obtained at Mythran’s,
was strong and powerful against ghouls. As for skeleton warriors,
he avoided them completely, since even though he could slay them,
they magically came back to life almost instantly. They were inde-
structible, it seemed, and he hoped eventually to find a weapon
powerful enough to put them to rest once and for all.

Following the north-south road, Stencil eventually came to the
gate leading to the Cemetery. He proceeded through, and almost
immediately found a large building, surrounded by a low metal fence,
just a few yards to the north and a little to the east.

@ WVividos and Lothian @

He went inside the building and found Vividos upstairs. He was a
middle-aged man of medium build, with an air of resignation about
him. Or maybe it was sadness. Or maybe, considering his chosen
profession, his seemingly downcast mood was simply par for the
course in this business of conveying the dead to Lithos.

“Have you come to learn?” asked Vividos. Stencil told him that
was indeed why he had come. The somber man seemed to perk up
a little. “This is excellent news. I shall teach you all about our mys-
teries and traditions.” Stencil asked Vividos to explain; however,

it

 

Pagan: Citina VITI—'The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

e ®

the Apprentice told him that he could not share this information
with a person not of Vividos’s order. “You could learn all if you were
to join the order and become a Novice.”

“Join your order?”

“Few people join. Life here is not easy but it is rewarding. A Nov-
ice is someone who has newly joined the order and has begun to
learn. However, as you are not of our order, I cannot tell you much.
Besides, we have many problems right now, so even if you wanted
to, you could not become a Novice at this time.”

“What problems?”

“Everything must be done with the right tools,” Vividos explained
patiently. “Unfortunately, we are missing a most important tool—
our Ceremonial Dagger. It was taken from us by that mad witch,
Mordea. She burst right in with her quards and simply stole it.” The
Apprentice shook his head sadly.

“Why is this dagger so special?”

“It was given to Moriens by the Mountain King Himself. We cannot
perform our ceremonies with any other dagger but the Ceremonial
Dagger. We need to get it back, somehow.”

Stencil, always the adventurer, saw this as an opportunity to put
himself in favor with Vividos and, hopefully, find out more about
becoming an Apprentice himself, as Mythran had instructed. “I'll
get the dagger back,” said Stencil, matter of factly.

“You will, truly? Why, this is wonderful news. Listen closely. Mordea
keeps it in her chambers. You will Know the dagger by its golden hilt
and serpentine blade. Please hurry, for we shall need the dagger
very soon.”

Very well, thought Stencil, he would somehow get this dagger
back to Vividos. But would Vividos then help him? It didn’t hurt to
find out first, before traipsing off into what could wind up turning
into a dangerous quest. He’d seen Mordea in action once already,
and it was not a pretty sight. “May I meet the Necromancer?”

“If you give me the dagger, | will get you an audience with the
Necromancer. Now, go.”

Stencil bid the Apprentice farewell, and, using the Item of Recall,
teleported himself to central Tenebrae, winding up once again on
the Palace rooftop.

@ The Ceremonial Dagger @

To Stencil’s surprise, the royal hall, which fronted Lady Mordea’s
room, was unlocked and the guards didn’t even seem to notice him
as he slipped inside. He closed the doors behind him and searched
the room, finding a key beneath a pillow. He was in luck: the key
unlocked Lady Mordea’s bedroom door. At the head of her bed
Stencil found a box. Inside, he found a dagger; however, by the
looks of it he guessed that this was not the one Vividos needed.

58

Chapter 5 The Alvatar’s Aipprenticeship

> =e.

de
Py ee ee

, | esill 6e €bere aé€

a a
is Seal

blooduatch

 

The Lady Mordea’s bedroom closet was locked. He searched the
room but found no key. The Ceremonial Dagger no doubt lay be-
hind that door, Stencil presumed, for it was nowhere else to be
found, and Vividos had said it was in the Lady’s chambers.
Now...where would one as cunning as Mordea hide the key. Back-
tracking, he searched high and low.

On his way through the kitchen he encountered a servant who
was busily catering to Mordea, who, from the dining hall, could be
heard complaining that she was hungry and where was her dinner?
The servant, a tall lovely woman, told Stencil that she could not
speak with him right now, but she would talk to him later if he met
her at her house in east Tenebrae at the hour of Bloodwatch. With
that, she hurried back to the dining hall to serve the whining Mordea.
Very well, thought Stencil, who headed back to east Tenebrae and
searched for the woman’s house. To the right of the Temple of the
Divine Hydros he found a house that was locked. Since he’d just
left her at the Palace, he assumed that this must be the place. She’d
told him to meet her at Bloodwatch, but since he didn’t have a
watch on him he did not know what time it was, or when the
Bloodwatch would arrive. Feeling tired, he roamed a few blocks
away from the house and found a quiet patch of lawn on which to
spread his bedroll and take a nap. He rested for an hour and went
back to the house and the door was unlocked. Inside, he found the
servant, who introduced herself as Aramina. She seemed a little
less nervous than when he’d first met her.

“I’m looking for a dagger,” he began.

59

 

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide

 

—®

She responded by telling Stencil she worked for Lady Mordea. He
asked her about the Lady, and Aramina said it was not good for her
to talk about her employer behind her back. “But I will tell you she
is a hard woman. She will stop at nothing to preserve her power
here. Nothing , not even murder. She hardly notices my existence.
At least she does not take pleasure in tormenting me like her Sen-
eschal does.” Stencil asked her who she meant.

“Salkind is her Seneschal,” Aramina said bitterly. “He sets me
difficult tasks, then delights in tormenting me until I am barely able
to complete them.”

“What kind of tasks?”

“Well, the other day, he was walking down the hall toward me
when suddenly he cornered me and began to pinch and grab my
body. Do you think that’s funny?” challenged Aramina. Stencil could
see that this was plainly not funny to Aramina, and justly so.

“No,” Stencil said, in earnest.

“No? Really? Truly, I did not find it very humorous either. He thinks
it’s hilarious. So I smile and try my best to stay out of his way. There
is precious little else I can do.”

“Speak up about itl” Stencil said, encouragingly. The woman
bowed her head and blushed. This dolt Salkind was nasty, thought
Stencil.

“Oh, you are very nice, and I appreciate your concern, but to
whom would I speak? Lady Mordea? No, she dotes on him.” Stencil
couldn’t say. Instead, he changed the subject. He felt he’d gained
the woman’s trust, and decided to try again.

“I am looking for a dagger.”

“I know nothing of a dagger,” said Aramina, averting her eyes
from Stencil’s own gaze.

“Please. I need help. Are you certain?”

“I can’t say. I'll get in trouble.”

“You won't get into trouble,” Stencil said, assuring her that her
secret was safe with him.

“Oh, I don’t know why, but I’m going to trust you. Mordea keeps
a special dagger in a locked chest. You will find the chest in a small
closet near her bed. I have the Key. I will give it to you but you must
promise not to tell anyone where you got it.”

Stencil promised, and Aramina gave him the key. He thanked
her, then hurried back to the Palace. Since it was so close, he walked,
rather than use the Item of Recall again. Past the quards once more,
he entered Mordea’s room. The Lady lay there on her bed asleep.
He crept along the very edge of the carpet around the Lady’s bed,
so as not to wake her. He knew the safer thing to do would be to
leave and come back later, but Vividos had told him to hurry, so he
decided to take his chances and hope that by being quiet he wouldn’t
wake the sleeping vixen. Indeed, the key Aramina gave him unlocked

@

60

ee Chapter 5 The Alvatar’s Alpprenticeship ®

the small closet. Inside, he found an unlocked, untrapped chest.
Inside it he found an ornate dagger unlike the everyday models
he’d seen so far. He took the dagger and left behind the other items,
for his load was already heavy. He slipped out of Mordea’s room
and raced back to Vividos’s house.

@ The Ceremony @

“I have the dagger,” Stencil said to Vividos, who was downstairs this
time, standing before an aged woman who was lying on an alter of
some sort. Was this Lothian, Stencil wondered.

“Bless you,” said Vividos, gratefully. “Your timing is perfect, for I
need the dagger immediately. Lothian lies upon the altar, barely
clinging to life. For your service I will grant you the boon you asked
of me. I will introduce you to the Necromancer. But first, stand
aside and witness the Ceremony of Eternity. For Lothian the time
has come. Please follow my instructions closely.” He turned and
with much admiration and respect in his voice, addressed the
woman. “Are you prepared, Lothian?”

The elderly Lothian’s dry lips parted. Barely. “All my life I have
prepared for this Vividos. I beg you to send me to Lithos, the Moun-
tain King.”

Vividos nodded his consent, then turned to Stencil. “Please kneel
before the Altar of Passage,” he told Stencil.

Vividos raised his hands skyward and spoke. “Lord Lithos, Moun-
tain King, we come forth to send your faithful Lothian into your
waiting arms. Tell us now, Lord of the Underworld, does this sacri-
fice please you?”

Lothian shuddered in sudden agitation. “Yes, Lord. Take mel! I
am ready!” the old woman cried.

As though in response to the woman’s cries and Vividos’s offer, a
powerful rumbling issued throughout the building.

“Let us begin, for Lithos is pleased. Now, prepare to greet the
ambassadors from Lithos’s world.”

The ground quaked once more, then erupted around the altar,
sprouting three undead ghouls. Stencil was alarmed and was about
to draw his weapon; however, Vividos, witnessing the very same
uprising, showed no sign of concern or fear.

“The dead now surround you,” Vividos said to Lothian. “Prepare
yourself for your lord.”

Lothian squeezed her eyes tightly shut and uttered these words:
“Sacred dagger, I am your sheath.”

In the next instant Vividos plunged the ornate dagger straight
into his elder’s heart. The old woman cried out and great jets of
blood surged from her fatal chest wound. Thunder and lightning
boomed and crackled in the small room and then all was quiet.

6}

 

Pagan: Cltima VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide »

 

&

“Arise, my friend,” said Vividos.

All at once, the ceremony became crystal clear to Stencil. “You
are the Necromancer?” he said, a little in awe.

“I am now. With Lothian’s passage, I step forward and take her
place. As Lothian’s Scion, I was next in the succession.”

“Scion? What’s a Scion?”

Vividos explained that the Scion is the Necromancer’s chosen
successor. He told Stencil that it was normal for the Necromancer’s
First Apprentice to be the Scion. Sadly, he went on, he, Vividos,
was Lothian’s only Apprentice. “Now I am in need of an Apprentice.”

Wasn’t that what Mythran had told him he would have to become
in order to figure out how to get off this godforsaken place? He
could barely contain his enthusiasm. “You need an Apprentice?”

“Yes, | do,” Vividos said, then, after a brief pause, he seemed to
consider Stencil with newfound interest. “You are a man of excep-
tional qualities, both physical and spiritual. Would you wish to
become my Apprentice?”

“Yes. 1am honored.”

“Good, then it is done. As my Apprentice, I would have you begin
your studies immediately. Much must be learned before you can
wield the magic of a Necromancer.”

Stencil asked him how he wanted him to begin, and Vividos
instructed him to gather some reagents. “With them I will teach you
their properties. There will be other tasks to follow. If you accomplish
all of them correctly, then I shall confirm you as my Apprentice,
and most likely you will become my Scion. After that you shall make
a pilgrimage.”

This was a lot of information for Stencil to comprehend all at
once. He addressed what Vividos had told him one point at a time.
“What reagents do you need?”

“I need you to bring me a sample of Executioner’s Hood from the
place of danger, and fallen sticks from a place where spirits roam.”
Stencil felt sure that the place where spirits roam was in fact the
burned-down house in east Tenebrae where he’d found the ghost
guarding some strangely shaped sticks. As for the Executioner’s
Hood, he was less certain. He asked Vividos how he would recog-
nize it.

“It is a black, leafy plant. It rests between the graveyard and
Tenebrae. Look for the Hood under what looks like a larger tree. It
is really a plant, so look closely.”

“Very well. You said I would go on a pilgrimage? And that I will
learn magic?”

“Indeed you will, my Apprentice. By the time you have completed
your studies, you will be capable of more than you ever dreamed
possible.”

This thrilled Stencil, but he was a little daunted by so grand a
promise. “Will you help me learn?”

62

Qhapter 5 ‘The Alvatar’s Alpprenticeship _»

ee
“Yes, of course, my student. It is part of my responsibility. But we
will talk about that later. Now, please go find the reagents I asked
for.”
“Yes, Necromancer,” Stencil said, then turned and left Vividos
and headed back to Tenebrae, for the burned-down house where
the spirit roamed.

@ Trouble in Tenebrae @

“Halt, stranger!” cried a guard as Stencil approached the gate lead-
ing into west Tenebrae. Back and forth through this very gate he’d
roamed over the last several hours, and now, suddenly, these two
were going to give him a hard time? He was in a hurry and hardly in
the mood for trouble.

“What’s the problem?” Stencil said.

“That is what we wish to ask you. What do you know about Bentic
the Scholar?”

Stencil considered lying to the guards, then decided that it was
probably best to tell the truth, for there was unlikely to be anything
wrong with admitting to having made another man’s acquaintance.

“We have spoken.”

The guards nodded to one another, as though they’d known
Stencil’s answer before he gave it and were testing him. “Then know
this,” said one of the guards. “For conducting forbidden research,
Bentic’s head rests deep within the realm of the Lurker, upon the
command of Lady Mordea. Know also that as his confidant all of
your actions are under observation. Now answer this. What do you
know of the fisherman Devon?”

“I have met him.”

“Then let me also inform you that he has been placed under
arrest and imprisoned. From your association with him you are also
under suspicion. Be very careful about whom you choose as friends
from now on.”

“Why was he arrested?”

“1 do not know. Ask him yourself.”

Stencil almost asked the guard where Devon was, but then he
remembered the dungeon-like area he’d discovered beneath the
Palace. He’d bet ten Obsidian coins that that was where they were
holding Devon.

Stencil took his leave, but not without one last warning from the
guards: “Stay clear of trouble.”

Just as he’d suspected, Devon was in fact being held beneath
the Palace in a locked cell. Stencil greeted Devon in hushed tones
through the locked door and asked the old man what was going on.

“I am not sure, my friend. I am pleased to see you. My good
friend Bentic has been executed and I myself jailed. No one will tell
me why. You must find this out for me, I beg your assistance.”

Cs)

 

Pagan: Citina VILI—'The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

e ®

 

“What was Bentic doing that warranted death?”

“Certainly Salkind has some explanation. He will not speak to me
here, but perhaps you will find him in kind enough spirits to answer
a few questions.”

Stencil promised to help. Devon told the Avatar that he had only
gratitude to offer, but perhaps one day he could repay Stencil’s
kindness in some other way.

Stencil found Salkind’s house in the southeast part of east
Tenebrae. It was a large, ornate building surrounded by a low stone
wall. A plaque in front announced: SALKIND THE SENESCHAL.

The place was empty, so Stencil did a little investigating. In
Salkind’s bedroom he found a key, which unlocked a door across
the hall. In the small room he faced a locked door. He found a lever
on one wail in the bedroom that opened the heavy locked door in
the small room. Inside he found a locked chest. Roaming through
the immense house, he found another key beneath a vase in the
upper left corner of the main room, which itself was filled with books
and desks. The key unlocked the chest, which was trapped. It con-
tained a Scroll of Restoration, however, which Stencil used at once
to restore his lost energy. There were other scrolls as well, and
three pouches, containing a total of 300 Obsidian coins.

Back in the main room Stencil browsed through the books lying
around. One of particular interest, entitled THE OFFICIAL LOGBOOK
OF CRIMES AND PUNISHMENTS as recorded by Salkind the Sen-
eschal of Tenebrae during the reign of her Ladyship Mordea, \isted
the “crimes” of known enemies of the state. Several persons were

64

qe Chapters The Alpatar’s Apprenticeship ®

listed, including Toran, whose execution Stencil had witnessed upon
arriving on Pagan. Bentic, the logbook explained, was found quilty
of researching forbidden subjects, for disobeying royal orders to
cease all probing into such studies, for spreading lies, and for steal-
ing books from the Library. His research, Stencil read, was
confiscated, and was now secured in the dungeon evidence cham-
ber for further review to determine the involvement of additional
conspirators.

That’s it, thought Stencil, the information Devon needs to find
out from Salkind. He went back to the dungeon, but was unable to
find this so-called evidence chamber. Just as he was about to give
up, he found something curious: a suspicious-looking wall in the
upper right corner of the hallway outside the jail cell. Did the cham-
ber lay behind this wall? More than likely it did. But how to get to it?
The only lever Stencil had found in the area was the one that opened
the jail doorway. Was there some secret to opening the wall? Some
spell he needed to know? He was at a loss. He didn’t know where to
turn next...or did he. Hadn’t the wizard Mythran told him to come
back if he needed anything? Well, he needed help right now, that
was certain. With any luck, Mythran would be able to help him. He
used the Item of Recall and teleported himself to the Plateau, back
to Mythran’s curious home.

@ Back to Mipthran’s @

Mythran was not surprised to see him. In fact, he seemed to be
expecting Stencil. After a quick greeting, Stencil cut to the quick.
“May I have another potion?”

“There is only one spell that I have bothered to transcribe onto a
scroll,” said Mythran. “It enables the caster to dispel magic that
seals entryways and portals. Unlike other spells, you do not need to
learn this spell before casting it. However, the magic upon the scroll
will disappear after you use it. So you may use each spell of open-
ing only once. Do you wish to buy the Scroll of Dispel Magic Passage?”

Did he ever. It was exactly what he’d been hoping for. He paid
Mythran fifty Obsidian coins for the scroll, thanked him, then quickly
teleported himself back to the Palace. He raced downstairs and
cast his new spell on the suspicious-looking wall. Sure enough, the
wall blocking the room vanished into thin air. Inside the small evi-
dence room he found Bentic’s journal. He read it quickly and with
great fascination. According to the journal, Devon was actually
Mordea’s older sibling, and that fact, that he was the first-born,
meant that he was stronger than Mordea. This was remarkable news!
He had to tell Devon at once—

—But he didn’t get very far. For when he turned around he was
surrounded by three heavily armed guards. One move, and he knew
they would strike first and ask questions later.

65

 

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

—®

o-
“Thief!” cried one of the guards. “I knew you were not to be trusted.
Will you come quietly? Or in pieces...?”
The quard seemed far too eager. “I'll go quietly,” Stencil said with
a resigned sigh.
“We will escort you to Lady Mordea.”

@ The Fated Docks @

The next thing he knew, Stencil found himself standing on the very
dock where Toran had met his terrible fate. Devon, who was here
as well, had been found guilty and condemned to execution. Over-
seeing the execution were Mordea and her followers, including
Darion the quardsman, two guards, the gaudily dressed Salkind,
and that axe-wielding hostess with the mostess, the Executioner
Shaana. Stencil had to tell Devon what he’d discovered—that he,
Devon, was in fact a power to contend with, one who was stronger
than Mordea herself! Before he could utter a single word, however,
the guards beat him to it.

“Hail, Lady Mordeal” cried the quards, calling attention to them-
selves and their prisoner.

“Oh no,” cried Devon, when he turned around.

“We bring you a thief, Lady Mordea. We caught him breaking into
the evidence chamber.”

The evil Lady was positively delighted by this announcement. “The
block always welcomes another,” she said with amusement.

“Sorry to see you here, my friend,” Devon whispered to Stencil.
“It appears we will both become victims of Mordea.”

“Please,” said Shaana, bored, “one execution at a time.”

“Yes, yes,” piped in Salkind, “we must attend to Devon’s first.”

“Very well,” said Mordea. “Carry on.”

“Good-bye, my friend,” said Devon grimly. “May Lithos forgive
our spirits.”

“Wait!” cried Stencil. “Devon is the rightful heir.”

Everyone’s mouth dropped—except Mordea’s, that is.

Darion was the first to regain control. He puffed his chest out and
drew his sword. “I should slay you right now for such heresy!”

“Stay your hand, Darion,” said a now nervous-looking Mordea.
“Soon he will be Lurker food.”

“Me?” said Devon, turning to Stencil. “A Tempest? Avatar, this is
not the time for levity.”

“Get on with it,” Mordea shouted.

“As you wish, my Lady,” the Executioner said, lining up her axe
once more.

“I have proof!” Stencil cried, interrupting once more. The guards
struggled to restrain him. He had to hurry. Quickly, he blurted out
all he knew. “I have a book that not only proves Devon is the rightful

 

66

a Chapters "The Alvatar’s Alpprenticeship »

Tempest, but also that his powers are stronger than those of Mordea!
Mordea and Devon had the same father, but Devon was the first
born. He is the rightful Tempest!”

“You lie!” cried Mordea, outraged by this blasphemous claim.

Salkind stepped in to smooth things over. “Mordea, I locked that
book safely away!” He’d spoken too soon, however. Realizing his
incriminating mistake, his face went pale. “Ooops!”

“Fool!” Mordea cried. “Now the whole world knows the secret!”

“Forgive me, Lady Mordeal” pleaded Salkind, bowing his head
like a child.

“Here is my forgiveness,” snarled the Lady, pushing him off the
end of the dock and into the water. Salkind screamed and vanished
beneath the dark blue surface. The water churned and the Lurker
surfaced once, briefly, as though saluting his benefactress.

Mordea ignored the sea creature, however. “Yes, Devon is the
rightful heir, but the truth will not save him. His head will still rest in
the belly of the Lurker! Proceed with the axel”

“Nol” said Shaana, to everyone’s astonishment.

Mordea was indignant. “What!?!? Do you dare to defy me?”

“I will not execute the true Tempest!”

At this, Mordea cast a lightning spell whose force knocked the
Executioner to the ground. The evil Lady then turned to Darion. “Do
you defy me, too?”

He bowed his head. “I cannot kill him, my Lady. He is the Tem-
pest.”

Mordea raised her hands. “If that is how it must be, you will all
suffer!” she cried. “Foolish brother! You think your powers are greater
than mine? Use them, then, to save your miserable life!” Mordea
threw her arms back and unleashed a huge lightning blast on the
crowd. Everyone was knocked down...except Devon.

“There will be only one Tempest,” cried Mordea, raising her arms
for another blast.

“Then let it be so,” said Devon, raising his own arms. “Your evil
must end, Mordea,” the old man shouted, letting loose a great spell
of his own.

“I will kill youl” Mordea shouted, striking back...but without the
same force as Devon. With a great, echoing cry, the evil Lady Mordea
was blown off the dock and into the water. The Lurker roared like
never before.

“May the Lurker welcome you as she has your victims,” Devon
said to the churning sea. He let out a great sigh and turned his
attention to those laying all around him. He could see that Stencil
was breathing, as were Darion and the Executioner. The guards, it
appeared, were dead. Stencil was coming to.

“Oh, my head,” said the Avatar, looking more than a little dazed
and confused.

6]

 

Pagan: Citima VITI— The Citimate Strategy Guide

& ®

 

“Avatar, at long last Mordea’s tyrannical rule is over.”

Indeed, there stood Devon, looking for all intents and purposes
like a genuine ruler. The old man spoke again. “Now I must be the
Tempest. I must use my power to undo the evil of Mordea. Thanks
to your efforts, this fair society is free to prosper. Although I know
your destiny lies elsewhere, you will always be welcome here. Now
I must leave. I need time away from Tenebrae to contemplate re-
cent events. I will return when the time is right to take my place as
Tempest. Good-bye, my friend, and may our paths cross again.”

With that, Stencil nodded and watched with awe as the Tempest
Devon cast a great spell on the sea that enabled the new ruler to
walk on the watery surface as though it were ground. Stencil stood
watching the lone figure recede off into the sea, until he could see
the old man no more. What an afternoon! All he’d been trying to do
was find a few reagents for Vividos...qoodness, the reagents! He
had, of course, forgotten all about them. Now that his life was spared,
it was time to get back on track.

@ Reagents for Vividos @

First, Stencil went to west Tenebrae to get the special sticks Vividos
had asked him to find. As he’d suspected, they were at the burned-
out house guarded by the spirit he’d visited earlier in his journey.
Stencil did not draw his weapon, and the spirit did not attack. Several
ghouls did appear, but Stencil had no trouble outrunning them after
grabbing one of the curious sticks.

He made his way to east Tenebrae once more, and searched for
the Executioner’s Hood where Vividos had told him to look—in the
undead-laden area south of the Cemetery. In short time Stencil found
the plant growing in a recessed pit, just south and a little to the east
of the entrance to the Cemetery. A pair of changelings guarded the
Executioner’s Hood, but they were no match for Stencil. He picked
several of the leafy plants, then quickly returned to Vividos.

The Necromancer was waiting upstairs, and Stencil gave him the
reagents.

“You have done well, my Apprentice. For your efforts and obvi-
ous learning, I have something for you. This is the Key of the
Caretaker. It will allow you entry to the Upper Catacombs. There
you must go to learn more of our art.”

Stencil looked at the Necromancer with a confused expression.
What key? There was no key in the Necromancer’s hand. He was
about to point this out to the Necromancer when he suddenly re-
membered a similar invisible transaction had occurred with Mythran
earlier, when the wizard had given him the Item of Recall, which
had magically appeared in his knapsack when he searched for it.
Such was the case with the Key of the Caretaker, for it, too, was
now in Stencil’s knapsack. He thanked his lucky stars that he’d had

68

Qhapter5 "The Aloatar’s Apprenticeship

 

room in his load to hold the key, for if he were at his maximum load
limit, he pondered briefly, would the key have fit in his pack? He
doubted it. Anyway, he had it now and that was what mattered.
Now, what to do with it...?

“What is it for?”

“The key is an item of power that will allow you to cast the spells
you will learn in the catacombs. To cast a spell, you must place the
proper reagents in a bag, close the bag, then invoke the power of
the key on the closed bag. When you open the bag, you will find a
magic talisman within. When you invoke the magic of the talisman,
you cast the spell.”

Simple enough, thought Stencil. He asked Vividos about the cata-
combs and where to find them.

“You will find the entrance to the catacombs through the very
rock itself. You will need to learn the Open Earth Spell, which you
can find in the Library, and the Key of the Caretaker. Go just north
of here. There you will find a small hall. Cast the Open Earth Spell
upon the rock face and you shall gain entrance to the catacombs.
There you must seek the Ancient Necromancers—those who have
traveled the path of the Necromancer long before you and I. My
ancient ancestors will teach you what you need to know of our
magic.”

“How am I to find them?”

“With good faith and a strong heart,” said Vividos. “Do not worry,
Apprentice. The Ancient Necromancers will make themselves known
to you.”

69

 

Pagan: Citina VILI—The Citimate Strategu Guide

 

ee —®

Stencil didn’t understand why Vividos, a Necromancer himself,
could not teach him what he needed to know.

“I can but say that you must learn from them the first-level spells.
Those who first created the spells that you will learn will teach them
to you. If you pass their tests, you will learn their magic. Then you
must come back to me.”

Vividos instructed Stencil first to visit his library upstairs before
he left, for it contained much useful information and several re-
agents he could take. “To speak with the Necromancers, there is a
spell you must learn. As the Necromancers are, to be certain, dead,
you must cast Death Speak upon their sacred corpses. Only then
shall you hear the voice of wisdom from their lifeless mouths. This
spell you shall also find in the library.”

Which Stencil did. As well as the useful reagents. He read several
books, thanked Vividos for his training, then left the Necromancer’s
home for the hall that would lead him to the catacombs and the
Ancient Necromancers.

0

 

The Math to the Ancient
Tf Decromancers

ust north of Vividos’s residence Stencil found a low iron fence

with an open gate. As Stencil walked toward the gate a spirit

materialized, as though it were there to quard what lay beyond.
Stencil ran past the spirit, avoiding its Fireball Spell. He quickly
made his way into the hall and closed the door behind him to keep
out the spirit’s smart bombs and any other foes that may have picked
up his trail.

The hall was lit by many flickering candelabra. He walked to the
center of the room, between two demonic head statues, and there
he prepared the Open Ground Spell by placing Blood, Bone, Wood,
and Blackmoor in one of his empty pouches. He closed the small
bag, then applied to it the Key of the Caretaker that Vividos had
given him. When he opened the bag he found the Open Ground
talisman. He activated the talisman and directed it at the great rock
wall in the middle of the room. A huge rumbling shook the place
and the wall fell away, creating an opening large enough for him to
enter.

@ The Cpper Catacombs @

_ Just inside the opening he encountered a pair of doors, which he
opened and went through. In the first room he passed a dormant
skeleton warrior. Careful to avoid two fire-spitting sconces, he came
to a gate. He pulled the lever in the middle of a series of three and
the gate dropped. He walked through the opening and headed right.

The place was a huge morgue, with corpses in various stages of
decay and skeletons occupying nearly every available resting place.

0

 

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

—

 

On several occasions he came upon gates that closed as he neared
them. He found that by walking away a short distance, then coming
back, gates that had closed would then open for him, and vice
versa. In the catacombs he found a number of reagents, including
bone and blood, and piles of wood, all of which he took.

In short time he came upon a door announcing, TOWARDS FATE
DO YOU TRAVEL. It was locked and none of his keys opened it.
Perhaps later he would return to this door. Continuing his exploration
of the catacombs, he came across a door that read, TO LOWER
CATA-COMBS. This door was locked too. After searching many
corpses and not finding any that looked ancient or regal enough to
be the ones Vividos had sent him after, Stencil began to suspect
that those he sought were probably in some secret resting place.
Indeed, the ancients would not be lying here among all of these
common deceased, would they? He thought not.

He wandered around in all directions for a while, eventually mak-
ing his way northeast from the place where he had entered, until he
found an oddly out of place, cubicle-sized room, tiny in size and
fronted by a door covered with cobwebs. The door was unlocked
and he opened it. Just as he was about to step inside he saw that
there was a pit in the floor, which dropped down into blackness.
Across the pit there roamed a mumbling ghoul, guarding a small
box situated on a low shelf. To search the box Stencil would have
to kill the ghoul, and at the same time avoid falling into the hole.
Carefully, he climbed onto the upper edge of the small room from

2

Qhapter 6 "The Path to the Aincient Decromancers

 

er ee
EG TER pa Te t
Ft

the outside and walked around it to the rear, above the ghoul. He
leaped down into the room and landed on the low shelf, where he
managed to slay the ghoul quickly without falling into the pit. Inside
the little box he found a pair of magical legging armor, which he
exchanged for the ordinary pair he’d been wearing, and also a pile
of eighty-six Obsidian coins.

He rested and considered the pit. Clearly, with so ornate a room,
and so tiny at that, the pit must lead to something, or somewhere
important to his quest—the Ancient Necromancers? Indeed, the
only way to find out was to take a deep breath and leap into the
dark pit...

@ The Mecromancers’ Test @

He crashed to the floor of what appeared to be a large cavern.
Recovering himself, he found, immediately to his left, four barrels
loaded to the gills with precious reagents. He stocked up with plenty
of each, as many as he could carry. When he was unable to carry
any more, a curious idea entered his mind: why not create the Death
Speak Spells that he would need to speak to the Necromancers
now, thus giving him more room in his inventory to carry more
reagents (for the spell talismans themselves each created the weight
of only one item)? With that, he prepared four Death Speak talis-
mans by placing six portions of blood and six portions of Bone in
his spare bag. He then closed the bag and used the magical key on

Gb

 

 

 

Pagan: Citina VITI—'The Cltimate Strategu Guide

ee ®

the bag. Voila. He now had six Death Speak Spells ready to cast,
and room in his inventory for a few more reagents.

Ready to press on, Stencil proceeded north and found a chest in
a broken-down room with more reagents in it. He explored a wide
opening to the west and a little to the south and came to a stairway
that led up to a platform, on which he found a corpse. The first
Necromancer? Indeed, Stencil surmised at once by the ornate cloth-
ing that covered its body that this was in fact the first Necromancer,
so different in appearance from any of the corpses he’d seen thus
far. He activated one of the Death Speak Talismans he’d prepared
and directed it at the Necromancer.

The fragile being sat up straight and turned its glowing green
eyes on him. It spoke. “You who would join me here at the right
hand of Lithos. You who seek my knowledge. You who have taken
but your first steps upon the path of Necromancy. Come closer,
living one, so that we may speak.”

“Are you a Necromancer?” Stencil asked, just to be absolutely
certain.

“But of course I am. You have done well to find me, yet there is
much left for you to find. You have not yet been truly tested.”

“In what manner will I be tested?”

“Your training has already begun. The rest is for you to discover.
If you prove yourself worthy, you will learn enough of our magic to
gain an audience with Lithos.”

“Yes, I need to speak with Lithos.”

“Yes, and so your testing has begun. You will meet other
Necromancers here. Each of us will in turn teach you a spell. You
will need to use each new spell in order to reach the next Necro-
mancer.”

“What will happen if I don’t learn the spells properly?” Stencil
inquired.

“Then you will die before you meet the next Necromancer.” The
already grave Necromancer’s raspy voice grew even graver. “Do not
falter, Apprentice. You have come this far, there is no going back.
To return to the surface world you must go forward.”

“I am ready, Necromancer.”

“Good. The first spell you will learn was written by my hand many
generations ago. It is called Mask of Death. When you cast it upon
yourself you will appear dead to others. Your enemies shall think
you dead. To cast this spell, hold Wood in one hand, Executioner’s
Hood in the other. Speak the words ‘Quas Corp.’ Then cast it upon
yourself.”

“And this will help me in some manner,” Stencil said, unable to
hide his skepticism.

“Leave your doubts behind you and trust in your elders. If per-
chance you did find the barrier of stalagmites upon a short wall that

 

Ut

Chapter 6 "The Path to the Ancient Decromancers

 

e —p

did block your path, you will now find that the stalagmites are gone.
Your way to the next Necromancer is clear. Now, be gone, there is
much for you to do.”

With that the Necromancer lowered itself back onto its platform,
closed its eyes, and returned once more to its quiet dead state.

Stencil descended the stairs and made his way east, until he came
to the small ridge that the Necromancer had described to him. He
climed onto the ridge and was about to continue onward when he
decided he should probably create the Mask of Death Spell now, so
that it would be ready when he needed it. Following the Necro-
mancer’s directions, he created the talisman and placed it in his
Knapsack where he could get to it quickly. How glad he was to have
done this, for when he leaped off the low ridge and started forward,
he came first upon a huge kith, then three, red, fiery deamons.
This, he decided, had to be where he was to use the spell he’d just
learned. He cast the Mask of Death Spell and was knocked off his
feet for an instant, as though he’d been struck down dead. The
deamons and the kith suddenly ignored him, and he quickly ran
past them and found himself in another room with a campfire going.
He found a knapsack containing food. He saw another knapsack on
a two-tiered ridge nearby. He climbed onto the first tier, then
proceeded to the second. As soon as he reached it, two ghouls and
a ghost appeared. Working fast, he snatched the knapsack, threw it
down onto the first tier, then jumped down after it himself, out of
harm’s way. Inside it he found more reagents, which he took. He
rested, then proceeded onward, to the second Necromancer, who
was nearby, stationed upon an elaborate platform.

Stencil cast the Death Speak Talisman on the corpse and the
Necromancer awoke.

“So you have survived your test long enough to meet me. I am
Bentos, seventh Necromancer of Lithos.”

“Greetings,” said Stencil. “I have come to learn from you.”

“And so you shall. The way of the Necromancer is difficult. You
will be assailed in many ways. And this will happen before you next
meet a Necromancer. Learn these words: ‘Kel Sanct Ylem.’ Say them
while holding Wood and Dirt, then focus on yourself. You shall be-
come hard as stone. Now, continue on your way. May Lithos smile
upon you.”

Short and sweet, thought Stencil. Very well. Following the
Necromancer’s orders, Stencil concocted the Kock Flesh Talisman
so that it was ready to use. He climbed off the Necromancer’s plat-
form from its far left edge, then leaped down off the low ridge.
Immediately to the right of the Necromancer he’d just spoken with
Stencil came to a corridor. The corridor ahead had an ominous look
about it, and the hairs on the back of his neck rose, as though this
space were somehow charged with electricity. Stencil had a bad

U

 

Pagan: Citina VILI— The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

e —®

feeling, and going on instinct, he cast the Rock Flesh Spell on him-
self and then proceeded at a fast run into the charged tunnel. The
moment he entered the long narrow passage a great bolt of light-
ning sparked and struck him down—yet he was alive! Three cheers
for instinct. He raced onward and was struck down twice more by
lightning before he came to the end of the electrified corridor. He
was briefly sidetracked by what looked like another Necromancer’s
platform, encircled by a low iron fence. It was not a Necromancer’s
resting place, however, and he proceeded forward—the only way to
go, really. He raced past a huge kith guarding a corpse and knap-
sack, and eventually found the third Necromancer, with whom he
conversed.

“Well well, you are progressing well, student. Are you now ready
to learn my spell?”

“Yes,” said Stencil, still trying to catch his breath.

“Very well. Always remember that no matter how mighty you may
feel, everyone eventually needs help in battle. Speak the words
‘Kal Corp Xen’ while holding Blood, Bone, and Wood. Focus this
power onto the ground, and help will soon arrive.”

“What kind of help will this bring, Elder?”

“This spell will summon your deceased brethren to your aid.”

“Deceased brethren?”

“Yes, student. Once you have joined the Necromantic order, you
will never again be alone. You shall always have the company of the
dead to comfort you. But enough talk, you must continue your jour-
ney. Farewell.”

Before Stencil could ask any more questions, the world went black
for an instant and he found himself teleported to another place—a
high ridge surrounded by dark blue water. Scattered all around the
ridge were several skeletons, which Stencil searched and found
loaded with more reagents. He also found a shield stronger than
the one he was holding, and a Death Disk.

He created the spell he’d just learned so that it was ready to use,
then rested briefly.

Ready to continue, Stencil carefully walked through some light-
ning gates, then leaped across a small chasm onto another ridge.
He quickly killed a ghoul, and then faced a skeleton warrior. He
could see that the fourth Necromancer lay just a few steps away,
but getting to him would prove difficult because the skeleton war-
rior was coming straight for him. Remembering the last
Necromancer’s words, Stencil cast the Summon Dead Spell on the
ground. A skeleton warrior sprouted from the ground and asked
him plain as day how he could be of service. Stencil pointed at the
approaching skeletal foe, and his own skeletal companion proceeded
to attack the enemy, making it possible for Stencil to race around
the bony pair to the Necromancer’s side.

“You are coming closer to your goal, live one.”

76

Chapter 6 The Path to the Ancient Necromancers

 

+

 

“I have worked hard to do so, Necromancer.”

“Do not think that the rest of your path will be easy. There is
something about you that I do not trust. I doubt your devotion to
the Mountain King.” This surprised Stencil, for the other Necroman-
cers had been cordial, in their own way.

“I am devoted, Necromancer.”

“Silence. I did not ask to hear your hollow voice. I was told to
give my spell unto you and I will do so. But know that if Lithos
consults me, I will tell him that I do not trust you.”

“I understand, Necromancer.”

“I do not care that you understand me. Listen to me, and then be
gone. Often you will be assailed by undead enemies. Carry with you
Executioner’s Hood and Blackmoor to create the Grant Peace Spell.
This potent ritual turns the undead back to the lifeless things they
were before they became reanimated. Go now.”

Once more Stencil was unable to ask any more questions—let
alone thank the Necromancer—for he was teleported to another
place all in the blink of an eye.

A little to the west he encountered a den of changelings, which
he managed to wipe out quickly and efficiently. To the east and a
little north he came upon a grassy clearing, where he found loads
of reagents. In the center of the clearing there stood a small build-
ing, looking oddly out of place. On either side of the building and in
front of it there were two treasure chests, both untrapped. Inside
them, Stencil found even more reagents. Having taken all he could

a

 

 

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

qs

 

carry, Stencil created a Grant Peace Talisman, rested, then entered
the small room—

—and was teleported to yet another cave. Working his way south,
Stencil discovered a platform. He climbed up onto it and saw what
looked like magical armor, and a bag. He neared it cautiously, for
the stone floor of the platform looked unsafe. It fact, it was not safe
at all—ready to crumble with the slightest misstep.

Stencil took little steps, and saw a section immediately in front of
him fall away. Carefully, he stepped around the new hole and
exchanged his armor for this new magical armor. In the bag he
found more reagents, which he took.

Heading north, he raced past a Fire Bomb spitter to a safe point
on the volcanic rock ledge. Searching a skeleton, he found a key
and an orange potion. He took the key, ran around the Fire Bomb
spitter to its right side, and carefully walked to the edge of the ledge.
He jumped across a lava chasm and climbed onto another raised
volcanic rock platform. He followed the platform to its end, then
jumped across another lava chasm to a lone platform.

Once more he was teleported to another cave. With only a moment
to get his bearing, he found himself face to face with a huge kith.
He raced past the beast and charged through a long corridor that
was bursting on either side with Fire Bombs. He cut left at the end
of the tunnel and ran past more bombs. He saw the fifth
Necromancer’s platform up ahead and hurried up its steps. Upon
reaching the top, ghouls and ghosts materialized all around him—

78

Chapter 6 The Path to the Aincient Necromancers

 

®

however, the spirits were no match for Stencil’s Grant Peace Spell,
which he cast on them at once. He slew the ghouls with his weapon,
then cast the Death Speak Spell on the Necromancer.

“Well, Apprentice, you have nearly completed your test. You seem
to have fared well, young one.”

“Thank you,” said Stencil. “It’s been hard.”

“And harder still will it become. Your final test is at hand. The
next Necromancer you will see is Galious. If you prove yourself
worthy, Galious will provide you with that which you need to get an
audience with the Mountain King.”

“I am ready, Necromancer.”

“You will never live to see Galious without my knowledge. A Nec-
romancer deals always with death. Yet sometimes the Necromancer
must be able to resist death in order to continue to serve. When the
time arrives, use Wood, Dirt, and Blackmoor and focus upon your-
self.”

“How will | know when to use the spell?”

“That I cannot tell you. You must decide, and wisely at that, for
you can use it only once. You must go now.”

This time it didn’t surprise Stencil that he was teleported to his
next location. Stopping for a moment, he created the Withstand
Death talisman that he’d just learned. He headed west, then north.
He found a small building with a lever but decided to ignore it for
now and come back to it later, if necessary. He continued west and
north, where he encountered a slow-moving kith, which he was
able to get past without trouble. On a raised platform he found
more reagents, but no sign of the last Necromancer. Backtracking,
he found an east passage that led to an open area. In short time he
came upon two skeleton warriors, and a fire-spitting sconce that
appeared to bar his way. He cast the Withstand Death Spell upon
himself and went through the fire-spitting path. Running as fast as
possible, he skirted a troll and more skeleton warriors. Eventually
he came upon a small room, in which he found the sixth and final
Necromancer. He closed the door behind him and approached the
Ancient one, waking it with the last Death Speak Talisman.

“You have reached me and therefore proven yourself worthy.
Lithos has instructed me to give you a spell that will allow you to
gain entrance to the hall of the Mountain King.”

“Is that where Lithos resides?”

“You already know that. Do not let your excitement cloud your
mind. The hall is guarded by doors that no living creature may open.
To gain entrance, you must raise a golem of the very element that is
our lord, Lithos. A golem made of earth.

“Now listen carefully, for like the other Necromancers, I will tell
you this spell only once. Blood, Bone, Wood, Dirt, and Blackmoor.
Say the words ‘In Ort Ylem Xen’ and focus this magic upon a broad
space of mud and the golem will be created. Seek out Stone Cove.

6

 

@ Pagan: Citina VILI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide »

You shall reach it by way of the catacombs. Once you have found
Stone Cove, there you shall need to create your golem. Only the
golem shall be able to open the door that shall stand before you.
Now be gone, to the Mountain King.”

Finally, he was through with the test...well, almost. Remember-
ing those two skeleton warriors outside, Stencil created a Grant
Peace Spell so that he could wipe them out. He opened the door
and dashed for the stairs going up. As soon as he set foot on the
first step, several ghouls and a spirit appeared. He focused the Grant
Peace Spell on the spirits, raced up the steps, and found himself
atop a low platform inside the catacombs once more.

 

To the Kall of the
Mountain King

t was a long way down the ledge, so Stencil decided to rest. He

took out his bedroll and napped for an hour. The lengthy fall

turned out to be painful, but not fatal. His head cleared quickly
and Stencil continued on his lengthy journey to the Hall of the Moun-
tain King.

@ Stone Cove @

First he wandered south, then west, then south again. He turned
toward the east and approached a gate quarded by a shooter. Sten-
cil did not fear the shooter because a metal shield in front of the
shooter guarded him against the fireballs. Judging the circles on
the floor to be another trap, he decided to leap over them. No time
to waste, he thought, and continued on his quest.

Fingering a trail past the stalagmites, he located a switch on an
outcropping near the gate. Just as he had predicted, the switch
activated the portal. Stencil was now in Stone Cove.

“Reagents. I need more reagents,” he mumbled to himself while
searching through his inventory sack. So off he went in search of
more ingredients. After satisfying his needs, Stencil ventured toward
the north wall and noticed three entryways. He ignored the left door,
which appeared to be an entrance to a cave. The right door was
fronted by spikes; Stencil therefore focused upon the center doors.
His commands to open them remained unanswered until he
remembered the Necromancer’s words, No human hands will be
able to open these doors.

8}

 

 

 

ee Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide

A Bl
c i. 1
eb leg

net AN ba ee
, cy ;

~
v%, "
*

 

While avoiding the large seeker, Stencil combined the proper
ingredients of Blood, Blackmoor, Bone, Wood, and Dirt in his bag.
He used the Key of the Caretaker on the bag, which resulted in the
creation of the Create Golem Focus. Standing approximately halfway
between the dirt floor and the large doors, Stencil proceeded to
cast the Create Golem Spell. At first it didn’t work, but soon he
realized that the correct method was to direct the spell at the dirt
while keeping the doors in view.

Beneath his feet the earth shook. Stencil peered left, then right.
To his surprise, the spell had worked and a giant golem appeared
before him. Stencil’s fear quickly subsided and he commanded the
golem to open the doors.

The golem obeyed. But now, although the doors were open, Sten-
cil needed to get past the golem. If I could only trick the golem, he
thought. He decided to sneak by, after convincing the golem to
move some nearby rocks. And that’s exactly what Stencil did.

Through the doors he headed, then turned north. He approached
the chasm with great caution and continued to inch forward until
he reached the very edge. Using all of his might, Stencil leaped to
the opposite side and continued heading due north. Eventually he
encountered a dirty black-and-red checkered floor. To penetrate
the building, Stencil decided to scale the wall. He searched the
area for anything useful, but found nothing. Then he noticed a switch
next to a large battered throne. Yielding to his curiosity, Stencil
flipped the switch. At first, nothing happened. Then, suddenly, ghouls
were surrounding him from every direction. Stencil gave up any

82

Chapter 7 To the yall of the Mountain Ring

 

.
i

—_
a es

¢
a:

aY
oy

Pee

on
ae
we *
a

 

idea of slaying the ghouls with his weapon— there were far too
many, and he fled.

® The Dreaded Floating Platforms @

Stencil realized that he was exhausted, but he continued along the
path, which led him back to the entrance to the caverns. From
there, he decided to venture west. After a brief time he came upon
a bridge of skulls. He hesitated, cringing at the idea of stepping on
the skulls of earlier travelers. He wondered if his own skull would
soon make up part of this ghoulish bridge.

Despite his misgivings, he inched toward the bridge. Just then,
as he was about to step foot onto it, a section of the bridge van-
ished. It soon returned, but in its place another section disappeared.
He stood before the bridge and observed the rhythm of the vanish-
ing sections. “This is going to be tricky,” Stencil said to himself. It
wasn’t long before he concluded that, to cross the bridge, he must
step on the sections as they reappeared.

After carefully navigating across the bridge, Stencil was confronted
by a large golem. Realizing that he was much smaller and swifter
than the lopsided beast, Stencil simply dashed past him.

Continuing along the same path, he eventually encountered some
strange floating platforms. He quivered at the sight of them for he
knew that one false move would mean his death. Stencil waited
patiently for the first platform to reach him, held his breath, and
jumped. It worked! One down, lots more to go. Platform to platform,

83

 

 

 

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

& —®

leap after leap. It became quite monotonous. Finally he reached
the blind side of the platforms, kissed the ground on which he
stood, and rested. His repose was quickly interrupted by another
growling golem. Stencil easily lured the dimwitted creature to the
south before darting around him and heading north—only to find,
to his dismay, more platforms.

Unlike the previous platforms that moved from side to side, these
vanished into thin air! Stencil’s mind reeled. He wanted to turn
back, but couldn’t— unless, of course, he wanted to become golem
chow. Stencil panicked briefly but quickly regained his composure,
clenched his teeth, and made a desperate leap for the first plat-
form. It felt solid, but he knew this feeling was about to end. Quickly
he jumped to the second platform. And being a talented Avatar,
Stencil managed to outwit the platforms and reach solid ground
once again.

@® ‘The Borce Field Mazeand ©
the Gem of Protection

Continuing along the path, Stencil noticed a door in the west wall.
He pushed on the door and found it to be locked. None of his keys
would fit, so he continued heading north. His brisk pace was sud-
denly interrupted by a painful shock that seemed to come from
nowhere. He looked around but didn’t notice any creatures or traps
that may have jolted him. Probably more trouble, he thought.

After being zapped repeatedly, he noticed a flickering blue light
off in the distance. The light also produced a peculiar humming
sound. Angry at himself for being such a careless adventurer, he
yanked a mushroom from the ground and tossed it in the direction
of the force field. Upon contact with the mushroom, the field re-
vealed itself. With his suspicions confirmed, Stencil ruammaged
through his sack until he found a purple potion. It was ever so bitter
but it gave him strength.

While heading north he encountered many more powerful force
fields, but the potion he had just consumed protected him from
further damage. After traveling as far north as he could go, he found
a chest. Stencil searched through his knapsack, but found no Scrolls
of Trap Detection. He decided to take a chance. He opened the
chest—and there was no explosion! It was nice not being blown up
for once, Stencil thought as he rammaged through the chest. Inside
he found a brass key and a small red gem, which he quickly placed
into his pack.

Stencil searched desperately for another route out of the cav-
erns, but found none. It was back through the force fields, he knew.
This worried him, for he had no more purple potions and he could
feel the first potion beginning to wear off. Deciding he had no choice,

#

&e—

Chapter 7 To the Kyall of the Mountain King

Stencil plunged forward. It was undoubtedly strange that he was
still unaffected by the fields. Pausing between fields, he opened his
pack and looked inside. There he noticed the small gem was slightly
aglow. Could this be the reason he was able to pass through the
fields unharmed? “A Gem of Protection,” he said softly, somewhat
in awe. Thankful for his good fortune, he proceeded forward.

His journey came to a halt when he stood before a familiar door.
Stencil selected the key that he’d found in the chest and inserted it
into the rusty lock. It eventually turned slightly and he could feel
and hear the groan of the tumblers in resistance. Finally, they gave
way and the door opened. He proceeded through the damp hall
and down a corridor. His direction led him west, then south. Even-
tually, the corridor grew into a large cavern. Heading north, he came
to the water's edge. He noticed that the stepping stones were covered
with slippery algae—one slip, even a sneeze, meant certain death
for Stencil. Swallowing his fears, Stencil jumped upon the stepping
stones, and with grim determination, reached the opposing side.

While continuing in a northerly direction down another dank cor-
ridor, he spotted an indentation along the west wall. Upon further
review, he discovered another passageway nearly hidden from view.
His curiosity prevailed and he entered the passage heading west.
The passage was very narrow, but it soon grew into a large cavern.
The crackling sound of force fields alerted him, but he soon real-
ized that the sounds were coming from quite a distance away.

Stencil was about to continue onward when what appeared to be
his twin brother suddenly confronted him. Speechless, Stencil

 

85

®

 

 

 

Pagan: Citina VILI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

e ®

watched in horror as his look-alike twisted and shrank into a small,
but fearsome monster. Soon another changeling appeared and trans-
formed. Stencil, finding himself unable to strike at his mirror images,
dodged the changelings and darted to the southwest corner of the
cavern. Here he found a chest that, after careful opening, revealed
several potions. He drank the red potion immediately, in hopes
that it would restore his health—and it did. He was just about to
close the lid of the trunk when a glint caught his eye. Pushing all of
the potions aside, he found another key. He secured it to his key
ring and returned to the hall from which he had come.

He headed north, and decided to investigate another narrow
passage facing west. Just like the first, this passage also opened up
into a large cavern. Stencil turned north and leaped over the water.
Just beyond the pool was a door, a locked door. Opening his pack,
Stencil pulled out his key ring and unlocked the door with his newly
acquired key. He replaced his keys and opened the door at the
same time. Passing through the door he found himself in yet another
passageway; this one, too, was cold and damp. Stencil paid little
attention to his surroundings as he took the west path until it ended.
Upon looking to the south, he noticed more floating platforms.

@ More Floating Platforms @

“Oh, no...more platforms!” Stencil groaned inwardly.

Taking note that there were only three platforms, he approached
the edge and waited for the first. When it was within reach, he
jumped. The second platform proved slightly more difficult. Leaping

 

oe

Chapter 7 To the Kall of the Mountain Ring

straight forward turned out to be infeasible, so he waited until the
platforms rested kitty-corner from him, then jumped at an angle.
Sensing that the third platform was unstable, Stencil chose to leap
over the chasm to the ledge beyond.

He was now at a T-shaped intersection that branched north and
south. Stencil debated which path might be the correct path—and
chose to pursue the southern branch. It wasn’t long before he came
to a large natural pulpit. Atop the pulpit, Stencil found a Recall Pad.
The Recall Pad allowed Stencil to “auto-travel” to other Recall Pad
locations. In other words, he would never again need to deal with
those dreaded floating platforms! Finding nothing else of value, he
retraced his steps to the north branch and continued on.

@ Meeting with Lithos @

The next sight he saw caused him to draw up short. Skeletons and
ghouls lined both sides of the very path he walked. Holding his
weapon at the ready, Stencil continued forward. Not a skeleton or
ghoul moved in his direction. His heart raced with anticipation—
could this be where he’d find the Mountain King? Eventually, he
approached a large granite wall. Upon further investigation, it ap-
peared to be a dead end. Stencil frowned. He was beginning to turn
away, his head hung low in disappointment, when the granite wall
came alive.

“What human is this who comes before me?” the granite Lithos
demanded.

“| have business before you, Lord,” Stencil responded.

 

-®

 

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide ®

e

“What business could a live one have that concerns me?” sneered
Lithos.

“Vividos is now Necromancer.”

“I am aware of that, and that Lothian must now be interred. Yes,
the scent of her rotting flesh shall perfume the garden of my de-
light.”

“Lord, I beg a boon,” Stencil replied, feeling the need to divert
the conversation from this course.

“Bold are you to beg a boon from me, mortal. What is this boon?”

“I wish to be Vividos’s Apprentice.”

“You wish to be apprenticed to the Necromancer? Then fall be-
fore me and serve your master!” Lithos thundered.

Apparently he failed to fall to his knees quickly enough, for the
Mountain King shook the ground beneath his feet until Stencil
tumbled to the floor like a rag doll. Pleased with the vision of this
mortal powerlessness, the Mountain King repeated his demand.

“Now, kneel before me, worm.”

Afraid of what would befall him if he defied the command, the
Avatar of Britannia knelt before the Mountain King. The King was
pleased by the fearful actions of this mortal.

“To become an Apprentice you must inter Lothian into my clay.”

“How do | do this, Lord?” Stencil asked respectfully.

“Ask this of the Necromancer; he will teach you, for it is his task
to serve me. You may leave me now, live one. Do not come before
me again until you yourself are the Necromancer!”

@ Returning to Vividos and @
Interring Lothian

Exhausted and a bit battered, Stencil badly needed rest. He looked
around at the spirit sentries lining the path—he couldn’t rest here.
Even though they seemed to be a peaceful lot, Stencil decided not
to take any chances—who knew what the Mountain King might or-
der them to do. He dreaded the long and arduous journey, back to
Vividos, that lay ahead of him. He took advantage of the Item of
Recall and was teleported to central Tenebrae.

Again he materialized atop the Great Palace. After spending so
much time in the catacombs, the sun’s warmth was ever so wel-
come—he even felt a bit refreshed by it. Nevertheless, he knew
that he wouldn’t be able to enjoy it for much longer, for he needed
to return to the Cemetery and Vividos.

On a hunch, before entering the tomb where Vividos was, Stencil
dropped his second backpack to make room for future additions to
his inventory. Upon entering the tomb, Stencil was greeted by the
Necromancer. Not wanting to waste any time with small talk, Stencil
got straight to the point.

 

 

e— Qhapter 7 To the Kall of the Mountain King

“I have met the Mountain King.”

“Since you are still alive, | can see he approved of you. Now |
have something for you, my Apprentice,” said the Necromancer.

“Something for me?” Stencil repeated, alight with curiosity.

“Yes, but not yet, my Apprentice. Did Lithos tell you there is one
last task you must perform?”

Stencil confirmed that this was indeed the case.

“What did he tell you?” Vividos pressed on.

Stencil explained that he must inter Lothian into the Mountain
King’s clay before he could become the Apprentice.

“That is correct. Take this key, the Key of Scion, and use it to
inter Lothian.”

Not seeing any key, Stencil assumed Vividos must have used the
same sort of magic he had seen Mythran use earlier. A quick inven-
tory check confirmed this to be true. Fortunately, he had had room
in his knapsack for the key. If he hadn’t made room earlier, the key
would have been lost.

“Where is Lothian?” Stencil inquired.

“You will find her outside the tomb, near the northeast corner of
the building. There her body awaits you to send it to the Mountain
King.”

After bidding each other farewell, Stencil departed once again.
First things first, he thought. He needed to retrieve his jettisoned
knapsack. With both sacks on hand, he shuffled his inventory items
for better balance, thus making his sacks easier to carry. He now
headed toward his next destination. Walking to the northeast cor-
ner of the building, just as Vividos had instructed, he found Lothian.
She was clothed in ceremonial robes and was encompassed by
candles. She didn’t appear to be dead, merely asleep.

“Lord Lithos, I have come to inter Lothian into your Earth as you
commanded,” said Stencil.

An unseen voice responded, “This does please me well, live one.
Come to me now, let me enfold you into my arms, Lothian.”

The ground opened beneath her and Lothian took her rightful
place amongst her peers, the other past Necromancers. Having com-
pleted his task, Stencil returned to Vividos to learn of his next
destination.

“I have interred Lothian,” Stencil proudly boasted.

“You have shown yourself well, you have served with bravery and
great knowledge. I have decided to name you my heir in the Necro-
mancer line. Now you are ready to make your pilgrimage,” Vividos
declared.

With a tinge of apprehension he replied, “Oh yes, my pilgrimage.”

“Yes, it is customary for the Scion to make a pilgrimage to the
birthplace of Moriens to pay homage and hope for a visitation.”

“Where is this place?” Stencil asked, hoping that he didn’t need
to return to those dingy catacombs.

34

— >

Pagan: Citima VITI— The Citimate Strategu Guide

 

®

e-

Vividos confirmed his worst fears when he said, “You must return

to the catacombs. First go to the Upper Catacombs. Once there

seek out the signs that mark the way. I would think that you have

already seen them. There are signs that quide you to many places—
the Pit of Death is one of those places.”

“I must obtain a visitation?”

“Yes, well do I remember my pilgrimage. Long did I travel and
such an adventure it was. When | arrived at the holy birthplace I did
see such a wondrous sight that first I thought myself to be mad.”

“What did you see?” Stencil asked, perplexed by the conversa-
tion.

“Perhaps it is best that I do not tell you. I would not want to color
your expectations. After all, everyone comes away from their pil-
grimage with a different experience. But be certain that your
experience shall be a profound one.”

Rather disappointed that he failed to learn what Vividos had seen,
Stencil bid him a fond farewell. He knew in his heart that this might
be the last time he ever saw a living person again, for this would be
another perilous journey.

“Farewell and good luck, my Apprentice.”

 

AL Visitation with the
Zealans

tencil left Vividos’s tomb and was once again greeted by the

light. Although he trusted Vividos, something motioned to

him that it was the Zealans, and not Moriens, he needed to

eek. Perhaps in his grief, Vividos had failed to see this error. With

this inconsistency resolved, he returned to the north shrine. Once

inside, he needed to cast the Open Earth Spell to reveal the entrance
to the catacombs.

 

 

e Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide _»
@ The Skull of Quakes @

The wall parted and a stench of death filled his nostrils. His first
wish was to turn back, but he knew the only way to get home was to
get through this quest. Heading to the northeast, he eventually
reached an unusual building. Next to a door on the east side was a
tarnished brass plaque. Stencil brushed away the spider webs that
obscured the engraving. It read, mysteriously, TOWARDS FATE DO
YOU TRAVEL.

The door was locked and he discovered no keyhole. He lunged at
the door but it failed to budge. Nearing the point of frustration, he
remembered the Key of Scion given to him by Vividos. When he
held the key to the door, the eyes in the key glowed an eerie green.
His second attempt proved more successful, since the door gave
way effortlessly. He put the Key of Scion safely back into his knap-
sack and entered the strange edifice.

Passing through the doors, he noticed an increase in tempera-
ture—that indicated there was lava nearby. After traveling down a
flight of stairs, Stencil could actually hear the bubbling pit. He ven-
tured west and found the molten rock. Finding no way around the
lava, he decided to jump over it. This proved to be less difficult
than he anticipated, and soon he was back on his way.

When the path turned north, he came across the body of one
who had fallen before him. A search of the corpse revealed a book
about the Zealans and the Ceremonial Shield. He read the book

 

Qhapters Al Visitation with the Zealans

 

+ ®

immediately—for there was no room left in his inventory—then con-
tinued north through a set of double doors.

Heading in a north-northwest direction led him to the rolling spiked
balis. Running swiftly past them, he headed north once again. The
path twisted to the east, then led to a fork. Looking down the north
path he noticed a fence maze. He decided to bypass the north path
and go east. This path led him to a square room containing a chest
that was guarded by a row of fences. Stencil attempted to reach
between the bars, but found that his hands were much too large.
He had to find another way to lower the gate.

A quick pan of the room revealed five large levers and four skull
candles. One by one he moved the candles as far from the chest as
possible. Not knowing which lever would lower the gate, he yanked
the closest one. Unfortunately, that was nof the correct lever. Instead
of opening the chest, it literally turned his world upside down. He
remedied the situation by pulling the same switch a second time.
He chose another lever, which simply moved all the other switches.
Finally, Stencil found the correct switch that, when activated, lowered
the gate around the chest.

He opened the chest with great anticipation. And considering the
difficulty he had getting to it, Stencil was sure it contained some
great treasure. Inside, though, all he found was a key. A bit disap-
pointed, he took the key and secured it to his key ring. Stencil
believed that this newly found key must fit a lock guarding a special
hoard.

 

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Cltimate Strategu Guide ®

@

A door to the north came into view. Perhaps this was the door
that the key might fit. Indeed it was, and the key slipped into the
lock with ease. Stencil rotated the key and the door opened. But
beyond it was no treasure for him to plunder or any fine weapons
or magical armor for him to wear. All Stencil found was another
passageway—no different than the many others he had already tra-
versed. He resolved to follow this path; maybe a treasure was hidden
nearby. It took him north, past four fire shooters, then east, south,
and finally, west. His hope was realized when a chest caught his eye.

Using extreme care, he pried the chest open. Although it did ex-
plode, he sustained only minor damage. While searching through
the contents he found a skull. Upon further investigation, he real-
ized that this skull appeared to be different from the multitude of
other skulls lying about. Not knowing if this skull would later be
needed, the Avatar tucked it safely into his knapsack. While his
knapsack was still open, he pulled out his bedroll and spread it out
on the ground. It wouldn’t be very comfortable, but he badly needed
to rest. After healing himself with an hour-long nap, Stencil rolled
up his makeshift bed and continued on his way.

Stencil believed it would be best to retrace his steps back to the
road crossing. He then headed north and entered a fenced-in area.
It wasn’t long before he realized that he had just entered into a
maze. Unsure of the outcome, Stencil cautiously stepped onto the
first pressure plate. He hoped that by stepping on the plate a gate
would lower. Just as he thought, the pressure plate toggled the
gate—allowing him access to the next section of the maze. Con-
tinuing in the same fashion, and heading in a northeast direction,
Stencil eventually reached a large, black-and-gold raised platform.
Exhausted, Stencil rested briefly. He took a deep breath, and sighed.
Examining the platform gave him the idea of climbing the platform
and bypassing the maze by walking over it. He found the platform
base to be slick, which almost caused him to abandon his plan. But
then Stencil found a niche, which was all he needed to pull himself
up. Walking to the far west end of the platform, he leaped from the
platform over a fence. He landed a bit hard, but he was well on his
way out of the maze.

@ To the Level Below @

Stencil walked north, leaving the maze area, then followed the path
west. He turned south into a long corridor. Blocking his path were
two large spiked balls. They were rolling back and forth, quarding
the entire length of the passageway. Stencil wondered briefly about
what sort of magic kept the balls in motion; he finally decided that
he didn’t have time to analyze the spiked balls or, for that matter,
their reason for existence, since they weren’t going to help him get
home.

 

of

Chapters AL Visitation with the Zealans

 

Scaling the west wall proved to be useless. “Too steep, too steep,”
he groaned. In frustration he stomped to the east, but in his haste
he miscalculated the distance between himself and a spiked ball. It
caused some damage, but nothing a little nap wouldn’t take care
of. It did serve the purpose, however, of reminding Stencil to be
more diligent. Enough careless mistakes and he’d never see the
light of day again.

Almost as far south as one could go, Stencil found a small cove.
From within this cove he was safe from the rolling balls. He wiped
away the sweat beading on his brow and noticed that the nearby
wall wasn’t as steep as all the others. He began to find a way up the
embankment. In a recessed area of the wall, several large mush-
rooms grew. He had no intention of consuming them, so he decided
to use them as footholds.

Upon the crest of the cliff, Stencil brushed the smut from his
clothing and mumbled something about his age. He briefly exam-
ined his surroundings and noticed a deep pit, containing spikes,
that he would need to jump over. Unfortunately, his left leg throbbed
and he was badly in need of rest. The pit would just have to wait.
Stencil shuffled through his pack and withdrew his bedroll. He threw
it on the ground and reflected on the day’s events.

An hour later he awoke, feeling refreshed and ready to continue.
He collected his inventory items and went to observe the pit. It was
huge. So huge, in fact, that he would have to put everything he had
into making it across. After mentally preparing himself for the

3

OE

 

Ol ; |
e Pagan: Citina VIXI—'The Cltimate Strategy Guide -

moment of truth, he gave all his strength to his legs and leaped to
the opposite side. He moved on, happy to have defeated that
obstacle.

He took the first passage to the north, which led him to a tomb-
stone that read, AMREZHAR by the Ancient Ones He Is Met. Stencil
hadn’t the foggiest idea as to what it meant. On a nearby table he
noticed a bag. In the bag were a few reagents, which he gladly
snatched. He left the bag behind for he already had a similar bag in
inventory.

Mixing the proper reagents in his bag, he created the Open Earth
Focus. Standing directly in front of the tombstone, he cast the spell.
Where once was solid ground, there now appeared to be a gaping
cavity. Further inspection of the hole revealed a lower level. Stencil
jumped in.

@ The Marble Room @

The ground was soft and his landing was easy. Walking south led
him to a fork that branched east and west. Since the east path was
blocked by stalagmites, he went west. The path turned sharply north
and brought him through a set of open doors. The path again turned,
to the east this time. He entered a room strewn with marbles. These
marbles triggered thoughts of his childhood and his beloved Britan-
nia. Wistfully he walked among the marbles, remaining cautious so
as not to slip. He headed toward the north corner of the room,
where he found a large stone wall and a metal gate that barred his
way. On the other side of the fence he spied a platform supported
by four tall posts rising out of the ground.

Try as he might, Stencil could not find a way to lower the gate. In
a fit of frustration, he picked up a blue marble and hurled it across
the fence at the platform. Ping! The marble struck the very top of
the platform and, lo and behold, the gate lowered. What an incred-
ible stroke of luck! Quickly he crossed over the gate’s threshold
before it closed.

Beyond the gate was a large room with two platforms. These plat-
forms could be raised and lowered by throwing one of the two
switches nestled on the floor. The platform to the west was already
in the raised position, so Stencil simply walked beneath it. On a
table he found a key and snapped it to his key ring. He raised the
platform to the east by pulling its corresponding lever. With the
sound of grinding stone the platform rose. Under the platform was
a Chest in which he found yet another key. A quick search of the
room revealed a few other items, but Stencil took none for his load
was already almost too much to bear. To the north began his exit
when he spotted a light-beam trip wire. Gauging it to be only ten
inches off the ground he jumped over it with ease.

 

96

 

@ Qhapters AL Visitation with the Zealans
@ The Stair Puzzle @

He continued his journey by traveling north until he came to a
T-shaped intersection. Stencil chose to head east. This particular
trail led him beyond a trio of bizarre staircases that seemed to lead
nowhere. Before each staircase was a pressure plate. Stencil stepped
on a plate and watched in amazement as one of the staircases slid
downward. He searched the grounds and found a clock. Deciding
to use the clock as a counterweight, he placed it upon a pressure
plate. It took a few tries before Stencil realized that the staircases
only moved in a downward direction, and that the clock needed to
be placed on the pressure plates in the correct order.

He studied the movements of the staircases patiently. He num-
bered the plates from left to right and kept track of his progress by
scratching the correct numbers in the dirt with a stick. Upon com-
pleting the puzzle, a doorway appeared at the top of the central
staircase. Smiling triumphantly, Stencil looked at the scratchings in
the dirt:

>

51-32-12-23-31-52-12-15-25-12-31-52-12

Stencil reached the end of the staircase and passed through a
doorway, all the while hearing a strange sound. It was then that he
saw the source of the crackling noise—two light beams surging with
electricity. Unassisted, Stencil knew he had no chance of surviving
even the slightest contact with such powerful beams of light. Un-
sure of what next to do, Stencil rifled through his knapsack and
found the items necessary to cast the Rock Flesh Spell. He pro-
ceeded to concoct the mixture of reagents while mumbling the
words, “He created the Rock Flesh Foci.” Stencil cast the spell upon
himself—and immediately felt his body become hard and statue-
like. He flexed his left leg, then his right. “So far, so good,” he
mumbled while lumbering through the light beams. The power of
the beams knocked him to the ground. He rolled his stiffened body
from side to side to no avail, so he rested until the spell wore off.

@ The Zealan Statues @

Fully recovered, he jogged down a flight a stairs, skipping every
second one. He reached the floor and turned to the west. A pair of
towering double doors appeared and Stencil fumbled for his key
ring. The key that he had found in the platform room, near the
marble room, was the one that unlocked the doors. The second set
of doors aroused his curiosity, since they were slightly ajar. This
must be a place of worship, he thought as he walked down the
center aisle past the pews flanking his left and right. The aisle ended
at a stone altar. To the right of the altar was a dead body. Carefully

As

Pagan: Cltima VILI—'The Ctimate Strategu Guide

 

@ ®

Stencil moved the body aside. Beneath it he found a key and placed
it on his key ring. While his knapsack was open, Stencil retrieved
the Ceremonial Shield that he had obtained at Mythran’s home. He
placed the shield in the center of the stone altar.

Just beyond the altar he noticed three large statues. He
approached them cautiously. Stencil was standing amidst the figures
when one of the statues began to speak. What he heard next were
the most delightful words that could ever have touched his ears. To
Stencil’s complete surprise and delight, someone actually knew his
true identity.

“Greetings, Avatar, we are aware of who you are and from where
you come. We also know what you seek. And we wish to help you.
You must achieve your destiny.”

“What is my destiny?” Stencil replied, directing his question to no
one in particular.

Through motionless lips the statues replied. “That is not impor-
tant now; now we wish to help you in your quest. Behind us lies the
tomb of Khumash-Gor.”

“Who was Khumash-Gor?” asked Stencil.

“Only the most fearsome warrior who ever lived. Eons ago he
was a great chieftain to our worshippers, but now he lives forever
entombed in honor of his valor. With him rests an artifact that is the
key to tremendous power. It is made of Blackrock, a substance with
which you have considerable familiarity.”

Stencil’s attention grew at the mention of Blackrock, for he knew
that without it, getting home was impossible.

The statues continued, this time on a more somber note. “The
small object is shaped like a pyramid, but be warned—even in death
Khumash-Gor has kept the fighting spirit onto which he held so
tenaciously in life. He will not part readily with his possessions.
Good luck, Avatar.”

@ Khomash-Gor @

After taking a moment to digest the information he received from
the statues, Stencil decided to prepare for his meeting with Knumash-
Gor. Believing that Khumash-Gor could not possibly hold his human
form, Stencil created the Grant Peace Focus, which would be effec-
tive against those who have crossed over, but have not found peace.

He tried to open the doors behind the statues, but they were
locked. Stencil shuffled through his keys but none of them fit.
Deciding that the Dispelling Magical Portals Scroll that he had
purchased from Mythran might work, he unrolled the scroll to release
the magic. The doors swung open freely.

Using all his stealth, Stencil clung to the wall in hopes of sneak-
ing by Khumash-Gor, thus avoiding a confrontation. The booming
voice of Khumash-Gor shattered that hope.

98

Ke

Chapters AL Visitation with the Zealans

®

 

“Who is foolish enough to disturb the sanctity of Khumash-Gor?
If you’ve come seeking treasure, it’s death you have found!”

With that Stencil was charged by the ghost of Khumash-Gor. Using
the Grant Peace Spell he had prepared only moments before, he
silenced the warrior forever. Beyond the throne he found two small
boxes. The right box contained a small piece of Blackrock called
the Obelisk tip, which he safely tucked into his knapsack. For the
first time in his quest, Stencil felt a little closer to home. His feelings
of joy, however, were confused with guilt, for it was a shame to
destroy a great chieftain who had stood the test of time. Not wanting
to commit furthur sacrilege, Stencil left the rest of the tomb
untouched.

When Stencil reached the statues, they again spoke to him. “Well
done, mortal. The item of Blackrock which you now possess is the
first key to unlocking the tremendous power within yourself.”

“What power?” he asked, a bit confused as to what the statues
meant.

“Beyond Earth, Water, Air, and Fire there is another element. A
fifth element. You have heard of it before. It is Ether. Like the others,
it will assume a form of titanic proportions. You are to be that Titan.
The Titan of Ether. We know the power is in you, but it is up to you
to find the courage to use this power. You must take the followers
from the other Titans, You must take their power just as our followers
were ripped from our grasp. Continue your quest for the powers of
the other Titans, for that is the way to gain their followers. The
greater the abilities you can accrue the better the chance you will
have of weakening the other four and eventually standing with them
as more than an equal. Go now to find those called Hydros, Pyros,
and Stratos. You shall find Hydros in her underground temple; the
other two dwell on the surface.”

When they had finished, Stencil bid them farewell.

“Farewell and good haste in your quest.”

Not quite sure of his next destination, Stencil touched his Recall
Pad and chose central Tenebrae. Just as before, the light dimmed
and his head began to spin. The dizziness ended as he found him-
self atop the Great Palace. Somehow he knew he needed to return
to the Cemetery and the catacombs that lay beyond. And that was
the direction he took.

a

 

 

The Element of Afir

his time he didn’t stop to talk with Vividos, but went directly

to the shrine. He entered the shrine, and brought together

the proper reagents to create the Open Earth Focus. As be-
fore, he cast the spell while facing the north wall.

@ Lo Airgentrock Isle @

Once inside the catacombs, Stencil made his way through the tangle
of tunnels toward the southeast. When he rounded a corner, he
almost stepped on a slumbering skeleton warrior. The skeleton
awoke and wasn’t too happy about his rude awakening. Stencil
turned and noticed an odd-appearing wall, but he didn’t have time
to study it since a ghoul now appeared and joined the skeleton in
hunting him. Not having the time to concoct a Grant Peace Spell,
Stencil simply swallowed the black invisibility potion that he was
carrying.

He waited until the creatures could no longer see him before
returning to the wall. There was a red hole in it, about the same size
and shape as the Skull of Quakes he carried in his knapsack. He
removed the skull from his bag and shoved it into the hole—it was
a perfect fit. The ground began to shake, then everything turned
black. Soon the darkness lifted and a large hole appeared in the
ground. Stencil saw a flight of stairs leading down into the hole.

No longer invisible to the creatures, he quickly trotted down the
staircase and into a small room where he felt quite safe. In this
place he found a Recall Pad. This answered his prayers since he no
longer had to go from Tenebrae through the Cemetery to get into
the catacombs.

18)

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategn Guide

& 3®

 

Stencil decided to make his way back to Stone Cove, for there he
could replenish his stock of reagents. Halfway to his objective, as
he was crossing the stone bridges, he spotted a doorway to the
east. Vowing to take only a quick peek, he veered from his intended
path and approached the door, which was fronted with spikes.

The door was locked and all of his traditional keys failed to open
it; however, the Key of Scion gained him easy access. He entered
the room and swiftly had to sidestep a handful of vicious spiders.
He noticed the path was quite different here—it was paved with
cobblestones. This piqued his interest and he picked up his pace,
curious to see what lay ahead.

He crossed over a wooden bridge and came upon something
completely unlike the rest of the catacombs—a grassy, peaceful
meadow replete with plants and animals. He found a Recall Pad,
which he activated. Slightly to the northwest he came to a stone
wall with an entrance that led to a small settlement. How strange,
he thought, a town within the depths of the catacombs—he was
very curious about the occupants.

@ Gaining Enlightenment @

Walking to the west, Stencil came to a large building that appeared
to be some sort of commons area. He decided this was probably
the best place to start acquiring information. Upon opening the
door, he found himself in a large, clean white chamber with a stone

altar at its center.
Be

Chapter g The Element of Alir
baad ~| “t*

 

a Ita et Fl
right.:€o

 

He approached a man wearing a white robe, hoping to talk to
him, but he was politely and quickly rebuffed. Obviously this man
was too busy to speak with a stranger. Looking around, Stencil saw
no one else in the room, so he decided to explore the others. He
chose a door to the rear left of the room. To his good fortune, there
was someone in that room. This man was dressed in a sleeveless
blue shirt and was carrying a very intimidating sword by his side.
Stencil decided to approach him with great respect.

“Excuse me,” Stencil said cautiously.

It turned out that the man was very friendly. “A fair day, stranger.”

“And one to you, sir.”

“You are new here. My name is Brother Xavier. Are you searching
for healing?” the gentleman asked.

“Yes, | am new here, and my name is Stencil,” he replied.

“Well met.”

“What do you mean by healing?” Stencil asked.

“Yes, this is a place of healing. Do you require my skills as a
healer?”

Feeling healthy at this time, Stencil told Brother Xavier that he
didn’t need his skills at the moment, but assured him he would
seek him out if he needed them later.

“Oh, it is pleased, I am, that you are well.”

“What is this place?”

“This is Argentrock Isle. It’s home to those who follow the Great
Titan of Air, Stratos,” Xavier replied, with pride.

“Who is Stratos?”

195

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide ®

“Stratos is the greatest of the Titans. Worthy of the respect and
admiration of alli—even of those who aren’t followers.”

Remembering what the statues of Zealan had said about gaining
the followers of the Titans, Stencil became more interested and
asked, “Who are the followers?”

“We are the Theurgists. By devoting our lives to Stratos we are
able to touch a small portion of the Titan’s power and use it to
heal.”

“He is worthy of respect, you say?”

“Yes, even for one such as yourself, who is obviously not enlight-
ened, Stratos can offer great things.”

“What do you mean, | am not enlightened?”

“You are not of our order and have not heard the Mystic Voice of
Stratos. Once you have heard the voice you become enlightened,”
Xavier said, with an air of authority.

@ The Test of Cisdom @

“I wish to become enlightened.”

“This is a noble cause. I hope you have the mettle for it. The tests
to gain enlightenment are fearsome.”

“Tell me of the tests,” Stencil replied, a bit offended by Xavier's
lack of confidence.

“It’s good to see you are interested. I am responsible for admin-
istering the tests. The first is the Test of Wisdom. The second is the
Test of Centeredness,” Xavier explained.

“Tell me of the Test of Wisdom.”

“The Test of Wisdom is the first test you may take in your journey
for enlightenment. This test consists of five questions I shall ask
you. The questions will test your knowledge of the ways of the
Theurgists. You must answer all five correctly to pass the test. If you
are thinking of taking this test I strongly suggest you spend some
time studying in the monastery library. Do you still wish enlighten-
ment?”

“Aye.”

“That’s the spirit. You have some backbone after all. You are only
the second in recent times to come for enlightenment. I will ask the
five questions; if you answer all of them right you may pass to the
next test. Do you wish to continue?”

“I am ready. Please continue.”

“You sit in a tavern sipping a mug of ale, when the Stalwart Fight-
ers around you begin to brag on the deeds done in the honor of
their Titan. Do you join the camaraderie and tell of the glories of
Stratos or do you remain quiet?”

“I would remain quiet.” A nod from Xavier told him he had
answered correctly.

“Why is wisdom greater than brawn?”

es

e

Qhapterg "The Glement of Air

“A weapon destroys, wit builds.”

“Is it better first to comfort a sad child or punish a wicked one?”

“It is always better to comfort the sad child first.” That was an
easy one, Stencil thought.

“Your only child has run away. He returns after a life of debauch-
ery and crime several years later. Do you welcome him home,
allowing the past to go unpunished, or do you turn him away until
he has redeemed himself and regained your trust?”

Stencil knew he could never turn his only child away. “I would
welcome him.”

“Good, here is your final question. Your liege lies dying wounded
in battle. You fear he won’t live long. He asks how the battle goes,
and you know the troops have been routed. How do you answer?”

Having fought in many a battle, Stencil knew of the need for hon-
esty between comrades. “I would tell him the battle is lost.”

“Good, you have earned the right to take the next test,” said
Xavier with respect.

@ The Test of Centeredness @

“Tell me of the Test of Centeredness.”

“The Test of Centeredness is the second test you may take on
your quest for enlightenment. During this test you will find yourself
on a high rock. The winds will test your strength, balance, and cour-
age,” Xavier explained.

“May I take the Test of Centeredness?”

“Yes, I think perhaps you are ready. You must travel to Windy
Point and climb to the highest point on the rock. Once atop the
rock, Stratos will begin her testing of you. Her winds will blow you,
but you must stay atop the rock, for to fall means almost sure dis-
ablement and possibly death. Good luck, friend.”

His stomach churned at the mention of death—he lived with dan-
ger every day, but putting himself in the path of danger, on purpose,
was another story altogether. In addition, Stencil didn’t care much
for heights. With grim determination, Stencil set out to find Windy
Point.

He left the monastery and headed west. He walked out through
the stone wall, the back way, and made his way across a field until
he came to a natural high wall. Following the wall to the south, he
came to a section of wall that wasn’t as high as the others. It was
here that he climbed up. He noticed one section of the wall that
stood higher than the rest. He felt this was a good place to wait for
the test to begin. Reaching the apex of this outcropping proved to
be very difficult, but finally he accomplished the task. The top was
flat and square, and a circle with five curved lines was carved into
the rock. He had hardly a moment to admire the view when the
wind began to blow.

e ®

185

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategu Guide

 

 

It started as a gentle breeze, but gradually increased to hurricane
proportions. It took everything he had to keep from flying off the
ledge like a discarded piece of paper. Leaning into the wind helped
some, but he needed to be very cautious, for when the wind changed
directions he could easily find himself blown off the ledge. Hours
seemed to pass before the winds finally diminished and the air was
still once again. Exhausted, Stencil descended from the high plat-
form and down the second ledge.

He returned to town to seek Xavier—and to inform him that he
had completed his second test. He first searched the monastery,
but he found no one there. Eventually he found Xavier in a wood-
framed building to the north of the monastery.

“Excuse me,” Stencil started.

“Good to see you, Stencil.”

“I have completed both of your tests,” Stencil boasted.

“Wonderful, Iam most pleased you have now earned the right to
assume the title of an Initiate. So, Initiate Stencil, you must now
find the Honorable Stellos. He will guide you in the next step on you
journey to enlightenment. You can find him in the monastery at this
hour,” Xavier concluded.

“Good-bye.”

“Be well, my friend.”

@ Creating Foci @

As he returned to the monastery, Stencil realized that he had for-
gotten to ask Xavier what Stellos looked like. He hurried back to

106

 

~ Chapter g The Element of fir ®

where he had last seen Xavier, but he discovered that Xavier was
now deep in meditation. Not wanting to disturb him, Stencil tiptoed
out of the building. He would find Stellos by himself.

Stencil entered the monastery and spoke to the first person he
saw. It turned out that this was the same person who had coldly
rebuffed him earlier, during his first search for Xavier. The man still
looked quite involved in whatever he was doing, and Stencil was
sure he would get no information out of him.

Feeling the weight of his knapsack, Stencil decided to drop his
second pack until he felt more rested. It was much easier to walk
without hauling that extra weight around. The next man he came to
was wearing a white robe with dark blue trim. The man, who
appeared to be ancient, had gnarled hands and eyes full of wisdom.
Stencil knew he need look no further; he had found Stellos.

“Pardon me, good sir.”

“Welcome, stranger,” the man replied, in a voice mellowed
with age.

“I have passed the first two tests.”

Stellos’s eyes crinkled as he smiled from ear to ear. “Yes, I know.
You have proven yourself worthy to bear the title of an Initiate. Now
you are ready to begin learning the spell that Stratos grants us.
However, before you do, you must construct your Foci.”

“What are Foci?”

“A Focus is a talisman of great magical power. It is a channel. It
allows the wielder to touch a small part of the great power of Stratos
and use it for the specific purpose for which the Focus was designed.

 

ee Pagan: Citina VITI—The Clitimate Strategy Guide »

Such as healing. It is a powerful item, but in the hands of the inex-
perienced or weak, it can kill.”

“How do I construct the Foci?” Stencil questioned.

“The construction of the Foci is the most important task an Ini-
tiate in the Order of Enlightenment can undertake. The Foci are
wrought of the finest silver, found only in the caverns under our
monastery. These caverns are dark and fraught with fearsome crea-
tures. Using this key, you will be able to enter the caverns.”

Seeing no key, Stencil reasoned that Stellos had magically de-
posited it in his knapsack, just as Mythran had done earlier. Curious
about this fine silver, he continued with the conversation.

“What do I do with this silver?”

“You must take the silver to the blacksmith Korick in Tenebrae.
Only he has the skill to forge the Foci. But these Foci will be without
power. You must return here, place them upon the Altar of Focus in
the monastery, and call upon the name of Stratos. If you have met
with her approval, she will then fill them with her power.”

“Good-bye, then.”

“May you be well,” Stellos wished.

@ Silver for the Foci @

Stencil retrieved his second inventory sack, placed all his inventory
items—except one potion of restoration and his bedroll—into the
second inventory sack, and left the first behind. He Knew the pack
would not be disturbed, for the integrity of the people here was
quite evident. He walked north into the kitchen, where good food
was available, but Stencil’s hunger could wait. Instead he took the
stairs located at the back wall down to the caverns below.

From the cavern entrance he headed east and used the brass key
to unlock the door. In front of him were two electric fences. Stencil
readied himself, then attempted to run past them. He came through
the first one unscathed, but when he reached the second he was
zapped and thrown to the ground. Feeling groggy, he raised himself
and tried again. This time he made it through. Fortunately, on the
ground lay a dormant skeleton guarding a red potion. He took the
potion and drank it in one swift gulp. The taste was vile, but there
was no denying its refreshing results.

He made his way to the south, where in the distance he could
hear the popping sound of a fire spitter. Walking a bit further he
found the spitter, and cradled in a niche near the spitter his first
piece of silver ore. Ducking his head low and running in a zigzag
pattern, Stencil reached the ore and quickly tucked it into his in-
ventory. Retracing his steps, Stencil stretched the distance between
himself and the shooter before stopping to examine the silver. It
was smooth, round, and looked similar to the other rocks in the

 

108

 

ee QChapterg The Element of Air _»

caverns—only smaller. By its hefty weight, Stencil knew he was in-
deed holding the correct object in his hands.

To the east he found a passage that led him to a large cavern.
The moment he entered, he found three more pieces of silver. He
was now halfway to his goal of collecting eight nuggets. Further to
the east he came across more accursed changelings that took on
his appearance. He also noticed that the changelings were guarding
several pieces of ore. Not in the mood to fight, Stencil simply skirted
around the changelings and snatched the ore. A quick sweep of the
cavern revealed one more piece of ore wedged between a large
rock and the wall. He exited the cavern through the same passage-
way he had used to enter it. Walking north he came to a house, but
he could find no entranceway. When Stencil turned, he spotted his
final piece of silver and returned to the kitchen.

@ Korick the Blacksmith @

Stencil located his knapsack and touched the Item of Recall, which
teleported him to Tenebrae. He headed southwest and located a
large, single-story stone building that belonged to the blacksmith.
Unfortunately, no one was there and the doors were securely locked.
Feeling a bit drained, Stencil walked a few blocks and found a soft
patch of ground where he rested his weary bones. An hour later, he
went back to Korick’s blacksmith shop and found the doors to
be ajar.

“Excuse me,” said Stencil.

“Fair greeting, mate,” the man responded in a heavy accent.

“Could you make me a Focus?”

“Do you have a chunk of silver ore? I require one to forge the
Focus.”

Stencil told Korick that he did have a piece of ore and handed it
over to the blacksmith.

“Good, you have the silver. Which Focus do you require?” the
blacksmith asked.

“Sextant.”

Korick made the Focus promptly and handed it back to Stencil.
The workmanship was impeccable. It was smooth and round, clearly
the work of an expert. Stencil asked him to make another Focus.

“Do you have another chunk of silver ore? Which Focus do you
require?”

“Pointing Hand,” Stencil answered.

Soon he had another completed Focus at hand. One by one,
Stencil asked Korick to create all eight of his Foci. Once they were
all completed, he had a set of finely crafted Foci.

“There, your Foci are finished. Good workmanship, no?”

‘oh

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Cltimate Strategn Guide

 

ee —®

Stencil wholeheartedly agreed with him. They shook hands and
Stencil took his leave. A touch of his Recall Pad sent him back to
Argentrock Isle.

@ Ghergizing the Foci @

Stencil materialized on Argentrock Isle. This time he failed to no-
tice the beauty around him, for he made haste back to the monastery.
Acting on Stellos’s orders, he placed the Foci on the smooth gray
stone altar in the midst of the monastery commons. Stencil could
tell each Focus had received the power of Stratos, for when he
picked them up, he could feel a tingle travel up his fingers.

Now that he had the charged Foci, he needed to learn of their
powers. Stencil thought that the best way to accomplish this would
be to read the spellbooks he had caught sight of earlier. In the
rooms about the monastery, he found a book on each of the Foci.
Armed with his new Foci knowledge, Stencil set out to speak with
the townspeople.

@ The Third Test @

Strolling through the settlement, he came across a man in a Sleeve-
less blue shirt. Stencil judged him to be about his own age, but with
a slightly heavier build. Before Stencil had time to extend a greet-
ing, the man shouted, “Have I met you before?”

“I don’t believe we have met before,” Stencil replied, a bit sur-
prised.

“My name is Torwin—what’s yours?”

“I am Stencil.”

“Well, hello, Stencil, what brings you here?”

Instead of answering the man’s questions, Stencil replied with a
question of his own. “What do you do here?”

“For now, I am only a healer. But that’s because they have not
recognized my superior abilities.”

Now, it was Stencil’s experience that braggarts usually have some-
thing to hide. He decided to play along with the man to see where
the conversation would lead.

“What superior abilities?” asked Stencil.

“Why, my talents for magic,” the boastful man retorted.

“Who will recognize your abilities?”

“Everyone. I never make an error when casting magic. I con-
structed my Foci correctly on the first try and they are the finest of
all the Foci, I might add.”

“You are a healer?”

Ho

Chapter g "The Element of Air _©

So

“Yes, why else would I be here? Anyway, are you in need of
healing?”

Stencil denied it.

“Actually, I’m relieved, Stencil, for | do not want to take precious
time away from my studies. No one has the abilities I have. | will
suffer no one to surpass me. I must do the best. I will do the best.
Now, if you will excuse me.”

Some bedside manner, Stencil thought, as he watched Torwin
retreat. He would have to keep his eyes and ears open for more
information about this shady character. He proceeded to explore
the building and met Stellos, or at least he thought it was Stellos.
The man turned and revealed that his clothing was slightly different
from that of Stellos. Stencil decided to speak to the man.

“Pardon me.”

“Hello, may I help you?”

“I have passed the Tests of Wisdom and Centeredness.” Stencil
was not quite sure why he told the man this, but the man had a kind
face and a look of wisdom beyond his years.

“You have? But you've just arrived on our island. I don’t believe
we’ve ever had anyone complete them this fast. Stratos will be
pleased with your accomplishment. Now you must find Stellos and
begin the next part of your journey.”

Thanking him for his compliment and directions, Stencil left in
search of Stellos. He found him in the monastery.

“Pardon me.”

“Welcome, stranger.”

“I have constructed my Foci,” boasted Stencil.

“Very good, you are well on your way to becoming a full Adept.
The next step is a test of all you have learned. You must return to
the caverns under the monastery; you will Know what to do when
you arrive there.”

Before Stencil had a chance to ask any questions, Stellos dis-
missed him. A bit confused, he made his way back to the caverns.
Upon entering the caverns, a scream echoed through the air. It was
a horrible cry of agony and Stencil ran in the direction of the screams.
Across a body of water he noticed a wounded Torax. Stencil
wondered if this was the test of which Stellos had spoken, and what
he should do.

Thinking back to the books he had read earlier, he Knew he had
the power of healing—but how could he reach the Torax? He remem-
bered his Aerial Servant Focus. If he couldn’t reach the Torax, the
Torax would come to him. He cast the spell and brought the beast
across the water and gently placed her on the ground. She was
badly hurt and barely clinging to life. He called on the powers of his
Healing Touch Focus, which breathed new life into the creature.
Fully recovered, she rolled to her feet and walked away.

 

WwW

 

o— Pagan: Citina VITI—'The Cltimate Strategu Guide _»
@ The Lost Foci @

He hoped that this was the test, for he couldn’t wait to get out of the
caverns. Once above ground, Stencil was off in search of Stellos.
He explored the monastery, but Stellos was nowhere to be found.
He continued his search and, eventually, found Stellos near the
back of the monastery by the garden.

“Pardon me, sir.”

“Welcome.”

“| have passed the third test,” said Stencil.

“That is a wonderful thing, but you must excuse me for I don’t
have time to celebrate with you. Something terrible has happened
that requires my full attention.”

“What has happened?” Stencil asked, truly concerned.

“Brother Xavier has lost his Focus of Healing.”

“How did this happen?”

“No one is sure. Poor Brother Xavier is beside himself with grief.
It is very unlikely that an Adept would misplace this. But if he knows
more he is not telling me.”

“Do you think it was stolen?” Stencil whispered.

“It wounds me deeply to think that one of our own would stoop
so low as to steal from another enlightened one. It goes against
Stratos’s teachings. But she also teaches mercy and compassion.
So if it was stolen by one of our own | will not hold it against that
person, but rather help him find the path of enlightenment again.”

The tone in his voice told Stencil that he was truly upset about
this turn of events. He felt that Stellos needed to be alone with his
thoughts, so he bid him farewell. Not Knowing where to go next,
Stencil decided to seek Xavier. He returned to the monastery where
he found Brother Xavier.

“Excuse me.”

“Good to see you, Stencil.”

“Hello, Brother Xavier.”

“What may I assist you with?”

“I have met Torwin.”

“Strange young man. I thought quite highly of him until you ar-
rived. I thought he was the best student we ever had. But...”

“He was a strange young man?” Stencil asked, unsure of what
Xavier was implying.

“He was always unusual. We would often find him standing in the
shadows outside different houses. What he was doing we could
only guess. When confronted he offers no explanation, he just wan-
ders off. He has taken an interest in the Resurrection Spell.”

“The Resurrection Spell?”

“Yes, it is possible to bring the dead back under the proper con-
ditions.”

“Under the proper conditions?”

2

 

Ohapterg "The Element of Alir

 

“It will cost your eyesight. This is why Stellos is blind. Because of
this high price Stratos gives that spell to only one Adept at a time. It
is, after all, a very dangerous spell.”

“It’s a dangerous spell, you say?”

“Most certainly, for to cast it one must journey to the City of the
Dead and face the minions of Lithos. More than one caster in our
history has not survived that encounter.”

“What were you saying about Torwin being the best student?”
Stencil asked, trying to change the topic back to Torwin.

“Well, he was the best student until he reached the third test, but
he could not pass it. I have heard he is trying to reach Stratos and
hear the mystic voice without passing the third test.”

Thanking him for the information, Stencil shook Xavier’s hand
and took his leave. His conversation with Xavier echoed in his head.
Stencil though that this would be a good time to find Stellos and get
his advice. Returning to the garden, he found Stellos.

“Hello,” Stencil said.

“Welcome.”

“I have met with Torwin.”

“He is one of our newest Initiates. He has shown tremendous
progress. Until you came along he was our best student. Recently
he’s been doing some interesting research.”

“Oh really, what sort of research?”

“He has been looking into the possibility of combining Foci to
increase their power. Although I don’t believe there is much chance,
I don’t like to stifle creativity and individuality.”

15

ee Pagan: Cltima VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide

 

a

Stencil bid Stellos farewell and was now sure that Torwin was up
to something—and that he was probably behind the missing Foci.
He needed to find Torwin, and fast. His search ended after entering
a wooden building in the southwest part of town. That was where
he found Cyruss attending to his studies.

“Pardon me.”

“Yes?”

“Have you seen Torwin?”

“Ah, no, I have not.”

Stencil was sure Cyruss was hiding something, for at the mention
of Torwin’s name he paled considerably. Stencil had to learn the
truth. Reaching into his knapsack, he called upon the power of his
Hear Truth Focus. He then posed his question to Cyruss again.

“Have you seen Torwin?”

“No” (yes, I have).

“Where is he?”

“I don’t know” (he told me he was going to Windy Point for some-
thing important).

“Why are you covering up for him?”

“I’m not covering up for him” (I think he is the one who took the
Focus. I don’t think he meant any harm by it).

Having this information, Stencil set out for Windy Point. He hauled
himself up the first ledge at Windy Point. To the west he saw Torwin.

“Torwin!” Stencil shouted.

“Go away, leave me alone!” Torwin’s voice was thick with frustra-
tion.

“Someone’s Focus is missing.”

“I know nothing of it.”

“I believe you do.”

“I know not, I’m telling you. Why, I haven’t even seen Brother
Xavier.”

Recognizing Torwin’s mistake, Stencil’s suspicions were con-
firmed. “But you knew it was Brother Xavier.”

“Well, I didn’t steal it, 1 only borrowed it.”

“What do you mean, you didn’t steal it?” Stencil asked, knowing
that the Focus was in his possession.

“I told you I am not a thief, I only borrowed it. I needed the magic
in it for my father.”

“What magic in it? And what does that have to do with your fa-
ther?”

“Foci are very strong lines to Stratos’s power. I thought with two I
might be able to draw more power from the great Titan of Air. My
father’s name was Toran and he lived in Tenebrae, my home. He is
dead now, killed by that evil Mordea,” Torwin cried in anguish.

Remembering the execution witnessed on the docks, and the
conversation with the devastated Rhian, his attitude toward the man

4

e Chapter g The Element of Air »

softened. Perhaps it wasn’t madness that this man suffered from,
but grief.

“Toran was your father?”

“Yes, he was a good man, not afraid to speak his mind and he
was killed for it.”

Stencil asked why Mordea decided to order his death.

“She had him executed for speaking his mind. Is that right?—can
a man’s life be snuffed out for mere words? Is that right, I ask you?”

Stencil felt that Torwin was quickly losing his weak grip on sanity;
reluctantly he told him that he had witnessed his father’s execution
for himself. ;

“Then you saw as his head was severed from his body with a
single swing of the axe. In that instant the most important man in
my life was taken from me and I could do nothing about it. Not
then, anyway.”

“What do you mean, you could do nothing about it, but now you
can?” Stencil asked.

“I could do nothing about it then, but with what I have learned
here, I will make things right!” Torwin boldly exclaimed.

“How will you make things right?”

“I will use the magic from Stratos to bring my father back to life
and have my revenge. Yes, I will bring him back from the Pit of
Death and have my revenge!”

It was then Stencil remembered that Torwin had not been at the
execution and had not witnessed his father being fed to the Lurker.
It pained him so to utter the next words: “Your father is not in the
Pit of Death. He lays with the Lurker.”

Torwin screamed, “You lie! He is in the Pit of Death and | shall
bring him back and I shall do it now!” And with that Torwin turned
and raced toward the ledge. Just before reaching the ledge, he
dropped the missing Focus and, without so much as a second
thought, jumped to his death.

“Torwin!” Stencil shouted into the darkness.

Bending to retrieve Brother Xavier's Focus, Stencil noticed that
Torwin had also dropped a ring. He considered taking that, too, but
in the end he left it, as a small marker of the events that had occurred
here today.

Slowly he made his way back into town, and sought Stellos.

“Pardon, sir.”

“Welcome,” Stellos greeted him.

@ Taking the Leap of Faith @

Stencil related the events leading up to Torwin’s demise.
“The loss of life is always a tragedy,” said Stellos, “and the loss of
one so gifted is an even greater loss for those who won't receive his

 

HS

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

Ce

healing. However, I am glad the Focus was found. You have shown
yourself to be ready to pass the final test to become a full Adept.”

“There is a final test?” Stencil asked, a bit surprised.

“Yes, in the final test there are no creatures for you to fight, no
riddles to answer, no problems to solve. There is simply you and
your belief. You must rely upon your own ability and your faith in
Stratos’s power.”

“How do | take this test?” Stencil asked, a bit worried, for he was
a little unsure about his faith in the power of Stratos. This was not
his world and these were not truly his gods. He was seeking enlight-
enment only to further his own goals. He wondered if he would be
able to get through this test.

“You must travel to Windy Point, where you will find two black
pillars. Stand between those pillars. If you truly wish to hear the
Mystic Voice, you must then take the Leap of Faith.”

Stencil recalled the black pillars from which Torwin had jumped.
This thought worried him, for Torwin’s faith in Stratos’s power had
seemed unshakable. He bid Stellos a fond farewell and went to find
Xavier.

Stencil found Xavier and returned to him his Focus. The two
exchanged pleasantries and then Stencil was on his way once again.
He made it back to Windy Point, to the exact spot where Torwin had
committed suicide. Standing between the pillars as instructed, he
filled his hungs with air, held it a moment, then jumped. Just as he
began to fall, he felt his body being lifted by some unseen force. He
safely landed on a platform floating in air.

He leaped from the floating platform to another. He then followed
the floating platforms to the north, then west, until he finally made
it to a platform that was far larger than the others. Stencil let out a
ragged sigh and was knocked to the ground—then his body floated
high above the platforms. “Don’t look down,” he mumbled to him-
self. “Just don’t look down.” Soon a sweet, almost angelic voice
broke into his thoughts.

“And yet another child is found. Please, small one, come closer.”

“Who are you?” he asked.

“Who? Such a dear child. So very young. Why, he is no more than
a babe. I am Stratos, Titan of Air. Giver of Life. To reach me took
great courage. I wish to reward you.”

“You wish to reward me?”

“Take this Focus with you, Adept, and you will be able to cast the
Air Walk Spell at will,” the voice crooned.

Not since childhood had anyone spoken to him so soothingly. It
was almost as if he were in the protective arms of his mother. Per-
haps that was because Stratos believed herself to be the Giver of
Life, the Mother to All. Stencil wanted to know if this was the case.
“Who are your children?”

116

8

 

Chapter g The Element of Alir

 

a)
eX

A

iy
ae

4
Ay
rf

i sd
ah

oe ee ee)
= rs

 

“Why, all who live. Do they not all partake of my gift of sweet air.
Some have forgotten their mother. But they will return. They always
do. When they are hurt or ailing they will come to me for healing.”

“Tell me of yourself, Titan of Air.”

“I am the breeze that cools your cheek on a warm day. I am the
raging wind that drives the waves before it. I am the fuel that feeds
the tongues of flame to heat your supper and the teeth that bite in
the winter. With my help my children can be cured of their illnesses
and pain; without me they die.”

“How are they healed?”

“Through the Breath of Wind my chosen children have the power
to heal.”

“Tell me of the Breath of Wind.”

“The Breath of Wind is that through which I touch my children. Its
location is known only to the Honorable Stellos.”

With that Stencil had his next destination. He was sad that his
time with Stratos was coming to an end, but he needed to press on
with his quest. So he bid Stratos farewell and thanked her for her
kindness. She gently lowered Stencil to the ground. He had fin-
ished his business in Argentrock Isle, for the time being, and with a
touch to his Recall Pad he was teleported to the Upper Catacombs.

7

 

 

The Element of Cater

tencil appeared on the Recall Pad in the Upper Catacombs.

Purely out of curiosity, he read the time on the clock that

was sitting on the table. Threemoons. He made his way up

e stairs. Before revealing himself entirely, he cautiously made a

visual sweep of the area to see if it was free of bloodthirsty foes. All
was Clear.

@ Carthax Lake @

He entered the region of the catacombs where he had found
Argentrock Isle. Just as he crossed over the bridges outside the
entrance to Argentrock, he spied a narrow passage just to the south.
He squeezed through the slim channel and emerged in a large bur-
row known as Carthax Lake. A skeleton warrior, which had been
standing nearby, immediately homed in on him and advanced with
his axe poised for battle. Stencil didn’t want to waste time battling
this skeleton; they were impossible to kill. He moved east, only to
find his way blocked by bubbling lava. Flinging a look over his shoul-
der, he saw the skeleton warrior approaching. It was either jump or
get pushed in. Collecting himself, he vaulted the lava. He could feel
the cuffs of his pants singe, but he made it to the other side.

He proceeded southward, through a lightning bolt fence. He then
came to a gate. Locating a switch on the wall, he pulled it and
watched as the gate slowly lowered. His Key of Scion opened the
locked doors that awaited him. This brought him to a large, cold
cavern. When he saw the Recall Pad on his left, he knew he was in
a place of significance.

19

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

&

 

He decided to go west. He traveled in this direction as far as he
could, then veered south. When this direction was exhausted, he
went east. Finally he had to turn north. He traveled only a short
distance before coming to the edge of a lake. Slightly to his left,
there was a bridge. He hurried along the bridge until he came toa
point where it had broken away. Across the break, he saw the rest
of the bridge with yet another bridge crossing it. He jumped across
the void and landed on the next section. He decided to see where
the crossbridge took him. It landed Stencil on a plateau. In the
center of this large plateau he came upon more water. Stretching
out into the water was a shiny, white marble platform. He was walk-
ing out onto the marble structure when, to his surprise, out of the
water rose a creature unlike anything Stencil had ever encountered.

@ Chleashing the Lurker @

As the water came to life, Stencil knew he had found Hydros, the
Titan of Water.

“Who dares?”

“Are you...Hydros?” Stencil stammered.

“Indeed, pitiful man, | am. Know that it is into my domain that
you have trespassed. Why do you disturb my rest?”

Stencil was taken aback; in sharp contrast to the soft and gentle
Stratos, this Titan was hard and unyielding. “I wish to attain the
power of Tempestry.”

120

Se

Chapter 10 "The Element of Mater

 

“Ah, a wise request from one who has made the journey to my
home. But alas, your wish must go unfulfilled for I am trapped. I
cannot help,” the Titan said.

“What can I do to help?”

“If you will assist me, my gratitude will be boundless. The task is
simple. Merely open the ground next to the gravestone of my captor’s
beloved, releasing the waters on the cliff side. Do that and | shall be
free.”

That didn’t sound too hard, Stencil thought. He did wonder,
though, why someone had felt the need to capture the Titan of
Water. It couldn’t be a valid reason, could it? Stencil reasoned that
it could not—after all, everyone needs water. Wanting to continue
his quest, he vowed to free her and then he bid Hydros farewell.

“Farewell, mortal friend.”

Returning past the broken bridges, Stencil headed to the west.
He came to a cavern entrance. When he walked through it, he was
confronted by a fierce troll. Stencil had no time to fight, so he feinted
to the left and ran around the brute to the right. He entered another
cavelike area. Going west he came to a stone wall fronted with
spikes. Slightly to the left, there was a break in the line of stakes.
He scaled the wall and squeezed between two of the metal studs.
He walked north until he came to a wall with a fence built into its
depths. There were two switches also located on the wall—which
one to use? He pulled the switch on the left, and the gate lowered.
Stencil wondered what the other switch did, but just before pulling

 

 

 

1}

—.

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

e —®

it he had second thoughts; it seemed too much like tempting fate.
Stencil hurried through the hole in the wall, where the fence had
once barred his way.

Racing past another lumbering troll, he came to yet another fence.
The fence somehow sensed his approach and opened automati-
cally. “Why can’t everything in this place be so accommodating?”
Stencil muttered. From here he wandered to the north. At the first
available junction, he turned west and came upon a troll guarding a
chest. Wondering what could be in it, he rushed past the troll and
targeted the chest. A smail explosion rocked Stencil upon opening
it. He shook off the effects of the discharge and quickly proceeded
with the search. What he found made suffering through the blast all
worth it: a pair of leggings. These were no ordinary leggings. The
purplish tinge surrounding them indicated to Stencil they were
magical armor. Able to withstand far more damage than traditional
leg plates, they would give him an advantage in battle. After dump-
ing the old battered ones he was wearing, he slipped the new ones
on with ease. A perfect fit.

Wearing his new armor, he made his way to the west, where he
came to a pool of water. Keeping himself pressed against the right
wall, he slowly managed to get past the deep pool. He proceeded
northeast, where he came to a cave access. Cautiously, he entered.
Once inside, he found a tombstone. He wasn’t sure if this was the
grave of which Hydros had spoken, but since he had seen no other
burial mounds, he believed that it was.

He brought together the proper reagents needed to fabricate the
Open Earth Focus. “Des Por Ylem.”

The ground in front of the tombstone buckled and split. From the
rip in the earth gushed cold, clear water. The water cascaded down
the mountain side, just as Hydros had promised. Stencil had ful-
filled his end of the bargain; now he needed to return to Hydros
and collect.

With a touch of his Item of Recall, he teleported to the Recall Pad
located near Hydros. When he again found Hydros, he was greeted
by a big surprise.

“I am now free. Thank you, foolish one, for your actions. Con-
sider my gift of your wretched life as payment for your deed. Now I
will have my revenge upon your pathetic kind. I will slay the de-
scendants of my jailer. Let us see who can reach Devon first.”

@ AL (arming for IOevon @

“Oh God, what have I done?”

He needed to seek Devon and warn him of his impending doom.
But how could he ever beat Hydros? He would have to hurry. He
ripped open his knapsack and touched his Item of Recall, teleporting

}22

e Chapter j0 "The Glement of Cater ®

himself to central Tenebrae. He rushed down the staircase and burst
into the throne room, without so much as a knock.

“Hello, Stencil.”

“The Lurker is free.”

“I had feared as much when the rain began and the people came
to me. I couldn’t stop it. Then I knew something was wrong. At first,
I had hopes that you had simply found another Tempest who was
older. Yet somehow I felt that wasn’t the case. Tell me, friend, how
did this come to pass?”

Oh God, he called him friend. How was he going to tell him it was
he who had unleashed the Lurker? How would Devon react when
he knew that, to further his own goals, he had doomed an entire
population? But he hadn’t meant any harm; he had been misled.
He hoped Devon could find it in his heart to forgive him. Stencil
took a deep breath and admitted his wrong doing.

“It was my fault.”

“That doesn’t surprise me. From the day I cut you from my net, I
knew of the luck that followed you; whether it is qood luck or bad
luck I did not know. Nor, for that matter, am I sure now. Neverthe-
less, the rains must cease or the land will flood again, as in the days
of Kalen and the wars with the Zealans and, my friend, I believe it is
up to you to end this cataclysm. Though I am loath to suggest this—
perhaps the Sorcerers who dwell across the river of lava in the
catacombs can help.”

Thanking him for his understanding and his direction, Stencil bid
his friend good-bye.

“Farewell and good luck.”

Devon had mentioned those who lived on the other side of the
river of lava. Stencil knew what this meant; the time had come for
him to meet the Titan of Fire.

123

 

q]

The Titan of Fire

tencil touched his Item of Recall and arrived at Argentrock

Isle. He didn’t stay there long, though; instead he walked

back through the entry door and into the main catacombs.

e made his way back toward Carthax Lake, where he had found

Hydros. From this entrance he headed north, then east. He found

an entrance to a cavern that he had never been in before. Curious,

he decided to investigate. Here he had to contend with a lightning

bolt fence. Before running through the fence, he backed himself

against the wall and gained as much speed as he could. After man-
aging to avoid being shocked, he continued his exploration.

In the southwest corner of this cavern, Stencil found a very sturdy
gateway. There was a large switch on the wall and when he pulled
it, the large metal gate lowered. The only problem was, another slid
up in its place. Thinking there must be some other way past the
gate, Stencil searched the area and found another switch, this one
smali and well concealed. It was located on the same wall, not
distant from the first. To his surprise, when he pulled the switch the
large gates didn’t open; instead, a small trapdoor on the left
appeared. Stencil clambered through the small square hole. His
Key of Scion open the locked door that lay just behind the gate.

@ Speaking with Beren

When he looked down at the ground, he saw it was made of cooled
lava. He was near the river of lava; he knew he was in the right
place. He walked to the south, where he came to a ledge. After a
jump, Stencil now found himself on a peninsula surrounded on

f : 3

 

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

ae -—

three sides by bubbling lava. He walked west to the lava’s edge.
Peering across the steaming molten rock, he saw a man standing
on the opposite shore. But before he had a chance to send over a
greeting, the other man’s voice rang out.

“I don’t know who you are, but you are quite resourceful to have
come to this place. Welcome to the Mouth of the Daemon. This
cavern was once the first test for those wishing to join the Sorcerers’
Cabal. Someone...has rendered it mostly useless by directing an
underground river this way. Quite a remarkable thing to do, don’t
you agree?”

“Thank you. I was the one.”

“An interesting solution to the first test of Sorcery. Perhaps if you
seek to enter into the Cabal, the Master will deem it proper that
your next test be to restore this cavern to its prior state—hmmm?
Should you somehow find a way to reach the point upon which I
stand, you will soon find yourself in the home of the Sorcerers. |
suggest that you seek out the Sorcerer known as Bane. She is quite
knowledgeable in our ways and might be persuaded to help you.
Farewell.”

In a flash of light he was gone. But soon he reappeared on a
higher ledge.

“Oh, I almost forgot to mention. Do be careful beyond this cav-
ern. The Sorcerers there do not take lightly to insults, attitudes, or
even posturing. Remember, you live at our pleasure when you are
in our Enclave. Fair warning.” Then he was gone.

Stencil rammaged through his knapsack until he came to what
he was looking for: his Air Walk Focus. Calling upon the power of
Stratos, he jumped easily to the other side on a gust of air. He
landed gently on the spot where that man had just been standing.
Stencil wiped the sweat from his brow and ventured southward along
the craggy outcroppings breaking the surface of the lava. Finally, he
came to a wall. In the center of the wall he found a passage. He
climbed up a small ledge and continued to the south, following the
brick path.

@ €L Conspiracy with Bane = @

He turned east at the first intersection. At the end of this path he
found a Recall Pad. As he approached, he watched as the pad rose
and glittered in response to his advance. Knowing the pad was acti-
vated, he returned to the main path and continued on in a southerly
direction. At the next intersection, he went west. He came upon a
building with a door. Next to the door was a plaque that read, AYCO-
LYTE BANE. He tried the door and found it to be open, so he entered
to see if anyone was home. Someone was.

126

 

Chapter 1) The Titan of Fire _»

“Ah, a stranger comes to the Enclave. How rare. You are also a
stranger to the island of Morgaelin, are you not? So I thought. And
what might your name be, my friend?”

“Iam Stencil,” he replied.

“What an interesting name. | shall be sure to make note of it.
However, you have need of a name that has meaning in the Elder
Tongue. I sense your name is Daemion. It means Fire of the Sky. Do
you like it?”

Not really, thought Stencil, but then he remembered what the
man had said to him earlier and decided it would be in his best
interest to hold his true thoughts in check. He’d best not offend this
woman, so he replied in the affirmative.

“It gladdens me. Perhaps later when you have earned it, you will
be given a True name.”

He wanted to tell her that he already had a true name: it was
Stencil. But again he didn’t want to offend her, so he held his tongue.

“With what may I assist you,” the woman continued.

“Could you please tell me of the Enclave and Morgaelin?”

At the question, a smile spread across the woman’s face. It seemed
she was happy to have someone new to talk with.

“The Sorcerers’ Enclave sits in the arms of Daemon's Crag, over-
topped by the mountain Morgaelin. The volcano is the namesake of
the island.”

“Tell me about the Sorcerers.”

“If you wish, but know this: the real power of the True name will
be given only to one initiated in our ways. Would you know about
the current Sorcerers, or perhaps some of those who went before?”

After a moment’s consideration, he asked to know of the current
Sorcerers.

“The living Sorcerers of the Cabal are divided into two groups.
The body and the will. The body is made up of all the Acolytes and
the will is that of the Master.”

“Could you tell me of the Acolytes?”

“The Acolytes are poorly led by the First Acolyte, who is more
beast than man. His name is Vardion and you would do well to
avoid him, as his odor can be most offensive. I, of course, am also
one of the Acolytes. Then there is Gorgrand, sometimes a bit slow
and easily led astray by those he thinks are of greater importance.
Lastly, there is Beren. A man to be trusted. He is as good as his
word and his word is beyond reproach. You could do worse than to
take his advice in all things.”

When she finished, Stencil asked about the First Acolyte. He was
curious about her comment of his being more beast than man.

“The First Acolyte is chosen to be the Master’s second in com-
mand and he tends to the daily running of the Enclave. The Master

ee

127

Pagan: Citina VILI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

e 8

needs someone who understands the people. Vardion is not this
someone. Far to the contrary, he lingers in the past. Observing out-
dated traditions for tradition’s sake, but I digress. Perhaps you grow
bored with this line of conversation?”

“No, no, please go on.”

Her voice lowered. “I will entrust to you further knowledge of our
predicament. I have reason to believe that Vardion is preparing to
assassinate the Master. He thinks the Malchir breaks with too many
of the old traditions, but fears his powers. Should he kill Malchir
and become Master, he will return the Enclave to the days when
Sorcerers were shunned by the rest of the island’s populace.

“This brings me to the point—I must ask a favor of you. I need
someone to enter into the confidences of the First Acolyte and
acquire from him his True name. This will aid me in knowing
Vardion’s motives. Will you do this? If so, | can offer you a position
as a Disciple, or even Acolyte, should Vardion’s intentions be
murderous.”

The mention of doing someone a favor gave Stencil a reason to
pause. The last time he did someone a favor, he was tricked into
releasing evil upon innocent people. And now, here it was again.
Should he trust this woman? What could he lose? He decided to put
aside his grave feelings of misgiving and place his faith in Bane.

“I accept your terms.”

“Good, you are perceptive and wise, my Daemion. First, to become
a Disciple Sorcerer you must be sponsored by an Acolyte; I shall do
that for you. Second, as your sponsor I will give you a True name.
Daemion you are to me and Daemion you shall be to the Fire. My
inner sight judged your name correctly. I have always had that ability.
To lend power to your True name I must reveal mine to you. Sabiane
it is and it means Well of Stars. Now, your first task as my Disciple is
to gain the confidence of our illustrious First Acolyte and obtain
from him his True name. I care not how you do this, just get it.”

@ Deceiving Vardion @

With this she turned away and silently dismissed him. It was now up
to him to find Vardion and learn his True name. How he was going
to accomplish this, he hadn’t a clue. He spun on his heel and left
Bane’s house.

He was walking down the neat cobblestone way when it suddenly
dawned on him: he had gained Bane’s True name; perhaps if he
posed to Vardion as one seeking knowledge, he could get Vardion
to agree to be his sponsor, just as Bane had done. He worked out
the details in his mind as he moved on down the road.

As he wandered, Stencil took note of all the plaques hanging
outside the doors of the houses he passed. He finally came to a
house bearing the name, First Acolyte Vardion. He went to the door

128

e Chapter 1) The Titan of Bire ®

and found it open. Inside the building he came upon a large man,
completely dressed in black.

“Who are you?”

“lam Stencil.”

“I don’t care about your name—I want to know who you think
you are to enter my Sorcerers’ Enclave, without my permission.”

“I merely seek knowledge.”

“We don’t give that away, it’s earned. Now why are you here?”

“I go where I will,” Stencil angrily retorted.

“Ah, there is some fire in you after all, but in truth, while in the
Enclave you shall contain your fire and watch your step. Do you
understand?”

“Yes.”

“Good. Now what do you want of me?”

“Who are you?”

“I am Vardion, the First Acolyte of the Sorcerers’ Enclave. Keep
this in mind.”

“What does it mean to be the First Acolyte?”

“It’s a position of respect. I handle the affairs of the Enclave and
our dealing with Tenebrae.”

Stencil was curious as to the nature of the Sorcerers’ business
with the people of Tenebrae, so he asked Vardion, “You have deal-
ings with the people of Tenebrae?”

“Of course! Do you think we grow our own food or make our
clothes? We give Tenebrae the knowledge that the Lord of Flame
will remain bound and that the volcano will remain dormant. In

 

 

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

g- 8

return, they free us of the necessity of handling our more basic
needs.”

The filthy blackmailer, Stencil thought. Taking advantage of the
people of Tenebrae; why, he ought to be ashamed of himself. But
Stencil kept these thoughts to himself. Instead, he led Vardion to
believe that his deal was a splendid one. “Shrewd bargaining on
both sides, eh?”

“Your perceptions are both insightful and correct. Perhaps you
would be interested in joining our order and learning our ways.”

“Yes,” Stencil said, with an excited edge.

“Excellent. I will see to your tutoring, but first you will need to
complete a task for me.”

“Whatever you want, I will do.”

“Your enthusiasm is encouraging, but your blind acceptance
doesn’t give me much faith in your ability. Are you prepared to
undertake my task?”

“Yes.”

“Excellent. the pact has been made. You will now be my Disciple.
I need to learn your True name now. The Fire gives you the True
name of Daemion. Hold tightly to that name. It is your strength as
well as your weakness. My True name is Morduin. Reveal it upon
pain of death. Your task is to gain the True name of Bane. She is
deceptive and conniving. Don’t be fooled by her friendliness. She
is power hungry. It is my belief that she seeks the death of the
Master, in order to become the most powerful Sorcerer of Pagan.
We must find out how—if the Master dies, war will break out among
the factions. Then the possibility of losing control of the Lord of
Flame will increase. I cannot let this happen. Will you undertake
this task?”

Stencil's head spun at this unexpected turn of events. Not know-
ing what to do and not wanting to anger this obviously powerful
agent of the Titan of Flame, he blurted, “Yes!”

“Good. Then hurry.”

Stencil was once again dismissed with a demand and a turned
back. He stumbled out into the street, his head reeling. He knew
that helping one would mean the demise of the other and, in turn,
helping neither would mean his own slaughter. Stencil felt like a
pawn, caught in a power struggle between two people who would
stop at nothing to gain complete control.

Needing time to think, he wandered through the village to the
north and west. He came to a stone bridge that crossed over a river
of lava. The bridge led him to a set of open double doors set into a
stone wall. As he neared the entrance, the doors slammed closed.
Irritated, he tried to open the doors but found they were locked and
there was no keyhole. Try as he would, Stencil failed to open the
doors. With nowhere else to go, he returned to town.

150

e- Chapter 1) The Titan of Fire »
@ The Death of Vardion @

He had to make a decision and make it fast. “I pick Vardion,” he
mumbled to himself. “No, no, I mean Bane...I mean Vardion.” He
again turned it over in his mind and in the end he chose Bane. She
seemed to be the least power hungry of them all and the most
sincere. He returned to the building where he had first found Bane.
He entered without bothering to knock.

“To what do I owe this meeting? Did you learn Vardion’s True
name?” Bane asked, a bit too enthusiastically.

For the briefest of moments, he considered lying to her, but that
would solve nothing and might indeed cost him his life. He an-
swered in the affirmative.

“Wonderful. Give it to me and I will end Vardion’s dealings.”

When she said nothing more, Stencil began to doubt his judg-
ment. But his heart told him it would be no different if he gave
Vardion the information he sought. So he strengthened his resolve
and followed through.

“It is Morduin.”

“Ah yes, Dark Flame. I should have guessed. Now prepare to wit-
ness his undoing!”

At her comman4d, the largest and most fearsome daemon he had
ever seen appeared. It asked how it could serve his mistress, and
to Stencil’s complete horror, she sent the daemon to destroy Vardion.
In a flash of light, the beast was off to carry out its orders. Before
long, another flash of light brightened the room and when the smoke
cleared, a very imposing man stood where the daemon had been
only moments before. By the authority in his voice, and Bane’s
reaction to it, Stencil speculated that this was the Master.

“I sensed a deamonic presence in the Enclave. What is the mean-
ing of this, Bane?” the Master demanded, in a roar so loud that it
shook the trinkets that adorned the shelves.

Falling to her knees, Bane pleaded, “Forgive me, Master. Vardion
was planning to assassinate you. Along with this stranger, I sum-
moned a daemon to rid us of this threat. Surely you understand.”

“| understand nothing. Get up! You have destroyed an Acolyte at
a time when I need him. What am I to do?”

Pointing in his direction, Bane explained to Malchir that he, Sten-
cil, had the power to fulfill the position of Acolyte. Maichir agreed
and offered him the position as Acolyte—if he could prove himself
by passing some tests. Stencil agreed to be tested and to accept
the position, if he should pass. Satisfied, Malchir returned to wher-
ever it was he’d come from. Bane then turned her attention to him.

 

Bi

 

@ Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide i

@ The Library @

“Take this key and go to the Library to study and collect the neces-
sary items. Learn our ways well! Return to me when you have
completed your studies and I will conduct your test. Good luck.”

He made his departure from Bane’s residence, without so much
as another word. He set out in search of the Library and the knowl-
edge it contained. He located a massive stone building southwest
of Vardion’s house. Using Bane’s key, he gained entrance to the
Library’s large double doors. Upon entering, Stencil found himself
in a study room with a large pentagram on the floor. There were
several men pacing about, deep in thought. Stencil left them to
their studies and made a beeline for a door he saw at the back of
the room. Through that door he found a wealth of information and
useful items. There was a book for each of nine different spells.
Taking his time, he carefully learned each of the spells. In another
book, called The Art of Flame, he learned that candles, either black
or red, were needed to create spells. He would also need reagents.
By arranging the proper candles and reagents along the correct points
on the pentagram, a caster could empower symbols with charges
of a chosen spell. Also contained in this book was a section
describing the pentagram. There are five points along the outer
ring, and each has a name, and the names read like this.

5 4

1 Aphelion

2 Mesostel Pa
3 Mesostel Ze
4 Perivolcan Pa
5 Perivolcan Ze

He studied the books until he was sure he Knew how to use the
pentagram and how to create the charged Foci. He grabbed up all
the wands and symbols he could. Stencil also took three candles of
each color. He now filled the rest of his pack with reagents. He
wished he could take a few more, but his knapsack was at maxi-
mum Capacity. With all this in hand, he felt ready to take the tests.
He set out in search of Bane.

V2

 

& Chapter 1) The "Titan of Fire »
@ Begin Testing @

He went to Bane’s house and again entered without knocking, only
this time she wasn’t there. Stencil was sure he would find her at
Vardion’s place. When he entered the building, she turned away
from Vardion’s now lifeless body and greeted him.

“To what do I owe this pleasure, Daemion?”

“I am ready to be tested,” Stencil said, as confidently as he felt.

“Are you? We shall see. Your test will consist of enchanting a
Focus. You may choose either Flash, Flame Bolt, or Endure Heat. If
you find you are not ready once the test begins, you may leave, but
the test will be forfeited. Do you wish to begin?”

“Yes.”

“Your test begins now. Fail not. I will not tolerate failure in my
Disciples.”

He decided to make the Endure Heat Focus first. Carefully, he
placed a red candle at both perivolcanae on the pentagram and
black candles on the other three points. Next, he dug two pieces of
obsidian out of his knapsack and placed them snugly against the
red candles. Next to the black candle at the Aphelion, he placed a
piece of iron. Finally, in the center of the pentagram, he laid one of
the rods he had found in the Library.

“Sanct Flam,” he spoke aloud, when he was sure everything was
just right.

After several spurts of flame, the rod in the center of the penta-
gram glowed with the power of Pyros. He looked at Bane to see her
reaction. She praised him, then encouraged him to continue. Sten-
cil settled on Flame Bolt as his next challenge.

He exchanged the red candle at Perivolcan Pa for a black one,
and replaced the black candles at Mesostel Ze and the Aphelion for
red. At Mesostel Pa, he placed a pile of ash. A piece of pumice
found its place at Perivolcan Ze and a lump of iron at Mesostel Ze.
In the center, he laid a symbol.

“In Ort Flam.”

This time nothing happened; something was wrong. He was sure
he had properly laid all the elements of the incantation. Stencil
made a quick review of the pentagram and soon he found the prob-
lem: the candle on the Aphelion was not lit. With this little problem
solved, he began the procedure again.

“In Ort Flam.”

Poof! As before, there were several flashes and the symbol in the
pentagram was now charged. Stencil didn’t even bother to look
over at Bane this time. He knew he had done it correctly and was
now eager to finish the test. He only had one spell left to concoct,
Flash. He set about completing the task at once.

He placed red candies at both Perivolcanae, and one at the Aph-
elion; the other spaces he filled with black candles. He tucked a

133

o- Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategn Guide _»

pile of ash next to candles at both Mesostelae and at the Aphelion.
A symbol he placed in the center. Making sure all of the candles
were lit, he began the incantation.

“Flam Por.”

With that, it was done and he had created all of the spells that
were expected of him. He turned when he heard Bane speak.

“Very well, Disciple. You are now ready to seek out the Master. Go
to the Obsidian Fortress. The gates will no longer bar you. You are a
Sorcerer now and only the Master Malchir has the right to revoke
this, should you fail his tests.”

@ The Trials @

She wished him luck and sent him on his way. Once outside, Stencil
began to think about where the Obsidian Fortress might be located.
He was sure that the double doors he had failed to open earlier
were the entrance to the Fortress, so he headed in that direction.

When he reached the bridge, he peered down into the void. A
slow-moving river of lava made its way under the bridge. It had to
be the river of lava described by Devon. He quickly crossed the
bridge and went to the doors. This time the doors swung open and
Stencil entered with great trepidation.

Once inside the stone fortress he was greeted by a stately old
man, whom Stencil remembered to be Malchir.

“Greetings, Disciple. You will remain within this fortress until you
have found my Inner Sanctum or you are dead. Even then, you
shall not leave this place. Within the chamber beyond this hall, you
will see the fate that befalls those who fail. The trials of the Obsid-
ian Fortress begin now.”

In an eruption of flame he was gone, but in his place were two
fierce and hungry daemons. Caught off guard, he had no time to
reach for a weapon or spell, so he simply darted between them and
raced down the stairs. At the bottom of the staircase, another huge
daemon awaited. But there was something different about this one—
he had a glint of life in his eye. He wasn’t one of the soulless killing
machines that he had encountered so far. With his hand on his
sword he approached with discretion. To his surprise the daemon
greeted him.

“Greetings, Disciple. I am Arcadion. You have managed to defeat
or evade the first quards of the fort. And now you have shown an
inkling of wisdom in not attempting to attack me. Perhaps you are
worthy...perhaps not. Regardless, for reward, I will assist you now,
by giving you access to the rest of the fortress and offer the use of
my pentacle and sundry items you might need in preparing spells.”

Stencil sized up the daemon. Although capable of doing great
damage, Stencil felt that he was peaceful and accommodating.

 

14

e Qhapter 1) The Titan of Bire ®

Stencil felt confident that he would not anger the hulking creature
by asking a few simple questions.

“Could you tell me of the Obsidian Fortress?”

“What would you like to know about it?”

“Where is Malchir’s Inner Sanctum?”

“Through the gateway, beyond the pillars, in the rear of the cham-
ber. But not until you have succeeded in accomplishing the Trials
will I allow you to go to the Inner Sanctum. He awaits you now, so
be quick.”

“Farewell.”

Just beyond the daemon, Stencil located a room with a large
pentagram and a chest full of reagents. In a wooden barrel he found
candles, both red and black. He also saw wands, symbols, and rods,
there for the taking. Not knowing if he would get such an opportu-
nity again, Stencil decided to make up some spells. After a quick
inventory check, Stencil determined he had enough ingredients to
concoct six spells. He created Extinguish, Ignite, Armor of Flames,
Explosion, Summon Daemon, and Banish Daemon. He also had
the Flame Bolt, Endure Heat, and Flash symbols that he had cre-
ated to pass Bane’s tests. This brought the total number of Foci he
was Carrying to nine. It was all he could carry, so he hoped it was
enough. He walked to the back of the alcove and onto a small
stone platform. There he was swallowed by a surge of flames.

Upon arrival, he took note of a large cavern, but he saw little
else. Stencil walked forward. He came to a pile of corpses and

 

 

 

155

Pagan: Citina VILI— The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

g- 2

skeletons, indicating to him that there was danger nearby—even if
it wasn’t immediately evident. The danger made itself apparent soon
enough, and it manifested itself in the form of a large, homicidal
skeleton warrior, headed straight his way. For a moment he
considered fighting, but he decided against it. He had, after all, just
begun his Trials and who knew what he would come up against. He
would be at a disadvantage were he tired and battered. With this
resolved in his mind, Stencil darted to the left and past the skeleton.

@ Extinguish Trial @

He wandered around the cavern, trying to get a feel of what his
Trials would involve. Shortly, he came to a passage with a shining
brass plaque attached to a wall. Getting close to the plaque, Stencil
could see that it read AN FLAM. Extinguish. This must be the first of
my Trials, he thought. I better be prepared. So he pulled out of his
knapsack the symbol holding the Extinguish charges, and contin-
ued down the passage.

He followed the passage until it spread out into a broad den. In
the center of the cave was a pentagram, not unlike the one he used
to construct his symbols. Around the pentagram, five fires burned
hotly. In the center was a helm. Peeking out from beneath the helm
was a blue-glowing symbol. Stencil realized that he needed to obtain
the symbol from the grasp of the burning pentagram. He cast
Extinguish upon himself and with a hiss the flames were doused.
He stepped forward and moved the helm aside, without even a
thought of taking it, for his own magical helm suited him just fine.
On the ground lay what he wanted: the Focus that represented the
passing of his first Trial. He snatched it and tucked it in his pack.

@ Flash Trial

He left this area and returned to the main cavern. He wandered
around again, suffering through only a few encounters with enemies.
He was sure that he was lost until he came upon another shiny,
brass plaque, fitted to the stone wall. It read FLAM POR. Stencil
took a moment to remember what that meant. At a bit of a loss, he
scratched his chin in thought. Try as he may, he could not recall
what FLAM POR meant. “Oh well,” he said to himself. “I'll just have
to figure it out when I get there.”

It didn’t take long for him to remember what FLAM POR meant.
When he got to the beginning of his next Trial, he found the ground
was covered with red Fire Mushrooms. I won’t get five feet without
being blown to bits, thought Stencil.

He dug the Flash wand out of his bag, and cast it on himself. He
chose a small clearing, a short distance ahead, as his destination.
Stencil’s life force ignited into an intensely bright flare that shot

150

 

qe Chapter) “The Titan of Bire ®

forward and targeted the clearing. Then the spell burned itself out,
and Stencil again stood in his true form. He continued through the
rest of the Fire Mushroom field in a similar manner.

When he had passed the bulk of the mushrooms, he then had to
cope with a corridor occupied by massive spiked rolling balls. There
was not an inch of space where he might squeeze by the studded
spheres. Using tactics similar to those that he had employed on the
Fire Mushroom fields, he flew by the balls in a blaze of light.

After passing through several corridors of spiked balls he came
up against a daemon. With as much speed as he could muster, he
cast the Banish Daemon Spell. The daemon raised his arms in an-
ger at being exiled, and in the next instant he was gone. But Stencil
had not been fast enough—the daemon had hurt him, and Stencil
now began to feel the effects. He knew this was no time to rest,
though, so he pressed on, bruised and bleeding.

The next obstacle he had to overcome came in the form of a
spirit. Behind the apparition was a blue glow that told Stencil he
was almost finished with this Trial. He had taken a beating from the
daemon and felt he could not stand a fight with this phantom. So
he eluded the shade and ran towards the blue light.

It was sitting so innocently on a platform that Stencil was sure it
was some sort of trap. He didn’t have time to analyze the situation,
though, because he could hear a wisping sound behind him. A look
over his shoulder confirmed it was the ghost, coming ever closer to
him. So he grabbed the symbol. Without stopping to put it in his
bag, he darted out of the room and past the shadow.

When he came to the rolling spiked balls, he proceeded to cast
the Flash Spell on himself, just as before. Midway through the balls,
he found himself in an area large enough for him to lay down. Feel-
ing sure that no antagonists could reach him here, he rested. After
an hour’s sleep, he felt rejuvenated and ready to continue. Again
using the Flash Spell, he made his way out of this Trial area, and
back into the main cavern.

@ Endure Keat Trial @

Stencil searched the main cavern until he found another brass
plaque. This one read, SANCT FLAM. Stencil didn’t have to translate
this one, for the rising temperature told him it said Endure Heat. He
entered the Trials area. The Trial began as a maze, weaving through
sharp stalagmites. Lying in wait for him, hidden in the crevices be-
tween stalagmites, were several skeleton warriors and ghouls. He
evaded the skeletons by sneaking through the tangle of pointy
outcroppings, only to find himself boxed in by a couple of ghouls. A
few chops with his weapon and the ghouls were no more. He had to
move the rotted corpses to get past them and carry on with his
Trial.

 

157

Pagan: Citina VITI—'The Cltimate Strategp Guide _»

 

 

He finally got through the maze and was standing on the top of a
high cliff with bubbling lava below. Stencil started to cast the Endure
Heat Spell on himself but before he had a chance to finish the spell
he was attacked from behind. He turned to confront his aggressor
but, to his dismay, he discovered this was no ordinary adversary—
this was a child. No matter how hardened he had become in this
place, he was still the Avatar of Britannia and he was not going to
attack a child, not even if she had charged him first. Quickly, he
finished his spell and leaped over the edge of the cliff.

He landed very hard, and under his feet some of the cooled lava
broke away, leaving him dangerously close to the molten rock. He
remembered the speillbook on Endure Heat: he could walk on lava
as long as it wasn’t the hottest burning yellow lava. So he picked
his way across the molten rock, carefully sticking to the cooler
orange lava.

When he reached the far end of the lava, he saw a ridge to his
right. As he began to climb the ridge he noticed a huge daemon
walking back and forth, guarding a chest. He ducked low and called
on the power of Pyros to recall this daemon, using his Banish Dae-
mon Focus. A moment later, when the coast was clear, he dragged
himself up the ridge. He walked to the chest and opened it quickly.
Ba-Boom! An explosion of mammoth proportions blew Stencil half-
way across the room. It took him more than a few moments to
recover from this one; in fact, while he was down he decided he

138

@ Chapter 1) The Titan of Fire ®

had better take a nap to recover completely from the damage. When
he awoke an hour later, he felt well enough to continue his quest.
He walked to the open chest, and retrieved the symbol.

His Endure Heat Spell had worn off while he was sleeping, so he
needed to recast it upon himself. Once the spell was in place, he
retraced his steps back across the thick, steaming liquid. Still wait-
ing at the top of the cliff was the small child who had attacked him
earlier. She had also brought along a few of her friends. Stencil, not
relishing the idea of being bitten by four little girls, skirted around
them and left them in his wake.

In the maze, the skeletons were again waiting to trip him up. He
was sure the ghouls had regenerated themselves, and that they,
too, were after him. Swiftly, he got through the maze and out into
the relative safety of the main cavern.

@ Airmor of Blames Trial @

He had almost finished his Trials—only one symbol left to obtain—
and he intended to find it with as much speed as possible. He saw
a brass plaque on a wall in the distance, but before he could get
close enough to read it, a fire bolt slammed into his head. It was
then that he knew he had entered the Armor of Flames Trial. Back-
ing away from the passage entrance, he cast the Armor of Flames
Spell upon himself and reentered the test area. While being bat-
tered by flame bolts from all directions, Stencil made his way south
and east. Eventually he came to a dais sporting four stone spiders.
Before he had a chance to get a closer look at the shrine, a daemon
emerged from the shadows and started in his direction. He cast
Banish Daemon on the beast and with a screech the hulk was gone.
It was then that Stencil noticed what the daemon was guarding. It
was a beautiful shield, crafted from the finest silver. Its purple cast
told him it carried a magical spell. He quickly exchanged the shield
he had for the new one.

A little farther to the south, he saw the symbol he was searching
for laying on the ground. He grabbed it and began his retreat out of
this Trial. He needed to hurry, for he could feel the effects of his
Armor of Flames Spell beginning to wear off. He finally succeeded
and returned to the main cavern.

With all of the symbols in his possession, he returned to the por-
tal that had brought him to the testing area. He climbed up onto the
raised platform and vanished in a flash of flames. He reappeared in
Arcadion’s lair. Moving across the pentagram, he approached
Arcadion.

“You have performed remarkably well, Disciple, or should I say,
Acolyte. For if you please the Master, that is what you shall be. Go
to him now. The gateway will take you to his Inner Sanctum.”

159

 

qe Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategn Guide
@ Summon Pyros @

Without so much as a farewell, the daemon walked away. Stencil
turned and went back to the gateway platform. Just before he
stepped on the landing, he decided to check his inventory—he
wanted to make sure he had enough spells and candles. When he
was sure he was prepared, he stepped onto the stone rising and
was again engulfed in flames. When he appeared on the other plat-
form, it seemed like he had returned to the Trials. But when he
moved forward, he discovered he was indeed in another place.

It was Malchir’s Inner Sanctum.

Malchir’s voice boomed like a drum. “I see you have endured the
Trials, which means that you have nearly completed your training. |
will test you now, to see if you are worthy of being an Acolyte. To
become one, you must first cast three spells. You may use my pen-
tacle, one of my statues, and my reagents to prepare. | will be the
target of each. Fear not, they will do me no harm. First, cast the
Flame Bolt Spell, then the Explosion Spell, and finally the Summon
Daemon Spell to assault me. Do these in order. Failure will mean
your life. There is no turning back. The test begins now.”

Stencil did not need to use Malchir’s pentagram, for he had come
prepared. He got right to the business of casting spells at Malchir.
He pulled the Flame Bolt wand out of his knapsack and aimed it
directly at the old mage’s chest. The shimmer surrounding Malchir
told Stencil that Malchir was using his own brand of magic to protect

3

 

140

@ Ohapter 1) "The Titan of Fire ®

himself from the assault. The powerful flame bolt appeared out of
the wand and flew at Malchir. When the bolt of flame hit Malchir’s
force field, it immediately diffused.

“Good. Now the Explosion,” Malchir said, encouragingly.

Stencil reached for his Explosion symbol and aimed it directly at
the old man. The spell detonated right where Malchir was standing.
Again he came through unscathed. Lastly, Stencil summoned a dae-
mon. Malchir had no trouble making it disappear.

Unexpectedly, Malchir summoned his own daemons to destroy
Stencil. Stencil pulied his Banish Daemon symbol! out of his bag
and returned them to wherever they came from. He had done it!
The smile that spread across Malchir’s face told Stencil he was now
an Acolyte.

“Excellent. You are now worthy of the title of Acolyte,” Malchir
stated.

Stencil asked what this meant. Malchir informed him that it meant
he was to participate in the Ritual of Flame. They must hurry to the
Great Pentacle, where the other Acolytes awaited. Before Stencil
had the chance to ask what all this meant, he was teleported to a
new location. He found himself in the presence of the other Aco-
lytes, standing around a huge pentagram.

“I am glad you are all here. I hope I have not caused you any
inconvenience,” Malchir began.

“Well, a little,” Bane said.

“I was rather busy,” Beren piped up.

“Enough. We have matters of importance to talk of here,” Malchir
thundered, fed up with the complaints of the Acolytes. “Place your
candles on the points of the pentagram,” he continued.

Stencil was unsure of what was going on and what to do, so he
followed the example of the other Acolytes. He placed the red candle
that was in his knapsack on the point in front of him.

“Now ignite the candles,” Malchir commanded.

“Yes, Master,” all responded.

“Kneel before the Lord of Flame.”

“Yes, Master.”

“Now speak the words of the chant. You must concentrate on
them throughout the entire ritual,” Malchir ordered, in a voice that
commanded obedience. After the Acolytes had chanted, Malchir
spoke again. “I believe all is ready. Prepare for the coming of Pyros,
Lord of Flame!”

The sound filling the cavern was deafening. The pentagram that
was carved into stone was now ablaze, blinding Stencil. His senses
were overloaded and he felt himself draining away. Then, suddenly,
out of the center of the pentagram rose Pyros in all his flaming
glory.

“For what pathetic reason have you summoned me?” he
demanded.

4)

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

ee —®

“I need your knowledge,” spoke Malchir.

“Your simple mind cannot hold an inkling of the knowledge I
have,” sneered Pyros.

“I command you to give unto me your knowledge,” Malchir
demanded again.

“I will feast on your entrails, mortal.”

“I think not. Now give me the information I require,” Malchir said,
sensing that Pyros’s resolve was beginning to weaken.

“What question will you ask?”

“| have read legends of a great fire that hangs in the sky. What do
you know of this?”

“I am the only fire!” roared Pyros.

“So you have no knowledge of the sun. If your knowledge is so
limited, then so be it. I will now have some of your power. Give it to
me! Your power is almost too much for me to take!” Malchir shrieked.

“Your flesh will burn in my volcano,” taunted Pyros.

“Strengthen your defense,” Malchir commanded his Acolytes. “He
seeks to break our resistance!”

“I have found a weakness in your defense!” bellowed Pyros, just
before he turned on Stencil and knocked him to the ground with
unseen power, thus breaking the circle of Acolytes.

“We have barely managed to contain him,” gasped Malchir. “Chan-
nel your energy to me and we will send him back.”

It seemed Pyros grew even bigger as he commanded Malchir to
prepare for death.

“No,” shrieked Malchir, “I have the Tongue of Flame and by its
power, I banish youl”

In a final burst of heat and flame, Pyros sank back into the depths
from which he had risen.

When it was over, Stencil was completely drained and numb, but
before he had a chance to recover, Malchir turned to him and said
he wanted to speak with him. The tone of his voice told him that
this was not a good thing. Malchir dismissed the other Acolytes
before turning back to him.

“Owing to your poor performance, I was not able to absorb as
much power from Pyros as I would have liked. This irritates me.
Accept this as a reminder. Never irritate me again!”

@ Defeating Mialchir @

Before Stencil could react, he was toppled by a Flame Bolt. It was
sent by Malchir as punishment for his misdeed. When he finally
regained his footing, Malchir was gone. Thoroughly exhausted, Sten-
cil rested. When he awoke an hour later, he was ready to carry on.

He walked back into town, where he was hoping to visit with
Bane. He was unable to find her, but he did find the other Acolyte,
Beren. Stencil tried a friendly greeting, but he was sternly rebuffed.

142

Chapter 1) +The Titan of Bire ®

“Do you know what you have done? You’ve allowed Bane to destroy
the most powerful Acolyte that has ever been. I shall never forgive
you, even though Malchir has. Leave mel”

Stencil decided to return to Malchir and see if he could make
amends, somehow. He returned to the Obsidian Fortress. He walked
through the fortress unaccosted by any hostile creatures and all
seemed well. At least until he met up with Malchir.

“I did not send for you, insolent child. The fortress is my sanctu-
ary and for breaking its sanctity you must die!”

In the next instant, Malchir encompassed the two of them in a
ring of hot, burning flames. He summoned a beastly daemon to
destroy him. Trapped within the circle of flames, Stencil had no-
where to run. “I'll fight fire with fire!” Stencil cried and summoned
his own daemon to assault Malchir. Then he dug into his knapsack
and pulled out his Banish Daemon Focus and sent Malchir’s dae-
mon back to hell.

Malchir wasn’t as fortunate. The daemon Stencil had called had
defeated him handily, and Malchir lay dead on the floor. Stencil
cast an Extinguish Spell to put out the ring of flames. As distasteful
as the thought was, he knew he must search the body. The inspec-
tion revealed a pair of arm guards, which he took, and a book,
which he read. The book was called THE TONGUE OF FLAME and it
described the Blackrock fragment of the same name. It spoke of
how the Blackrock fragment was the power that kept the Titan of
Fire bound. It warned of the dangers of unbinding Pyros, by walking
though the Great Pentacle with the fragment in hand. Stencil made

&

 

 

45

@ Pagan: Citina VITI— The Citimate Strategn Guide _»

mental notes of the important sections, for his backpack was al-
ready too heavy for him to bring the book along. The search of
Malchir’s body also revealed the Blackrock fragment in question.
Stencil grabbed the chunk of Blackrock and shoved it in his pack.

He now had two pieces of Blackrock and he was that much closer
to home. He remembered that THE TONGUE OF FLAME had warned
that if the holder of the blackrock piece were to enter the Great
Pentacle with the piece in hand, it would unbind Pyros. He decided
to see what would happen if he did this. Upon entering the Great
Pentacle, the sky reddened and firestorms rained down from the
sky. Pyros was now free, never to be recaptured again.

He had gotten what he needed from this place, and it was time to
move on. Stencil touched his Item of Recall, only to find that it
didn‘t work. Perhaps he was too far into the Enclave for its powers
to be effective. The only way for him to leave was to walk. He started
toward the entrance to Daemon’s Crag. Once he reached the en-
trance, he tried his Item of Recall again. This time it worked and he
chose the Upper Catacombs.

144

 

The Titan of Gther

ith no clear idea about where to go next, Stencil thought

about the Pit of the Dead. He had yet to visit there and he

figured it was about time. Stencil wasn’t sure why he felt
drawn tfrere; perhaps it was something Torwin had said. Anyway,
he made it his next destination. It was his understanding that the
entrance to the Pit of the Dead was located in Stone Cove, so he
headed back there.

It was a long and boring trip back to Stone Cove. When he finally
reached his destination, he was worn out, and he rested. He knew
the door he sought was located in the north wall, but before going
there he restocked his cache of reagents. He filled his pack with an
assortment of reagents, making sure he had at least one of all the
ingredients he could find. When he had taken his fill, he walked to
the north wall.

Again he came to the three doors. He knew the double doors in
the center led to the Hall of the Mountain King and that the cave
entrance led back to the Upper Catacombs, so by the process of
elimination, he knew the door fronted by spikes was the correct
choice.

@ The byeart of the Garth @

He found the door to be locked, but with the use of his Key of Scion
he gained entry. The door opened with a loud squeak that made
Stencil wince. Now any enemies will know I’m coming, he thought.
He redoubled his stealth as he passed through the door. To his
relief, there were no foes waiting on the other side. As it turned out,

149

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide

 

 

there was nothing on the other side, just another long, dank corridor
that led to the north and west. He decided to follow the walkway to
see where it would lead him. It led him to a half-destroyed building.

The doors on the south side of the building were locked. None of
his keys, traditional or spiritual, opened the doors. Trying to climb
over the wall proved fruitless, but by craning his neck and standing
on tip toes, Stencil could peer over the half wall. On the other side
he caught a glimpse of some dirt—he had just found his way in.
Thankful for the reagents he had grabbed earlier, he composed an
Open Golem Spell. Standing on tiptoe again, he aimed the spell at
the dirt. He didn’t see the golem being made, for when the earth
shook he was thrown to the floor. Stencil then commanded the
golem to open the door. Just as he hoped, the doors swung open
under the golem’s power. He got up and darted through the entryway.

Through the doors was a set of stairs that seemed to lead no-
where. Skirting them to the left, he unfortunately came too close to
a dormant skeleton warrior, who awoke at his approach. Even more
unfortunate was the fact that when the first skeleton awoke, his
partner on the other side did as well. Even in full health, Stencil
didn’t think he could defeat both of these warriors, so he hurried to
the arena in the center of the room.

It was in this arena that the dirt he had used to create his golem
was located. He climbed up onto the wood frame surrounding the
dirt. Before stepping off the wooden ledge and into the mud, he
concocted an Open Earth Spell. Ahead of him he could see a grave.

146

Chapter 12 The Titan of Gther

 

 

The second he stepped on the dirt toward the grave mound, two
ghouls sprang from the earth. Four chops apiece with his weapon
did the trick. He walked to the headstone and tried to read it, but
the epitaph was obscured by time. Standing back a bit, he cast the
Open Earth Spell. Where the earth was torn open, Stencil saw an
item that gave him reason to be very happy—the Heart of the Earth
Blackrock piece. He snatched it from the void and tucked it in his
pack.

He walked back to the edge of the arena and saw the two skel-
eton warriors still waiting for him. Stencil lingered on the wooden
frame until they had moved away, then jumped down to the stone
floor and darted for the door.

@® ‘The Secret Treasure Room @

Having found the Heart of the Earth, he backtracked northwest
through Stone Cove and emerged once more in the gray, cold Upper
Catacombs. Stencil rested for an hour to regain his energy.

Recalling Vividos’s instructions about the Door of Fate, he headed
northwest in search of the golden door he encountered earlier in
his journey. In only a short time, he stood before the door. Reach-
ing into his knapsack, he withdrew the Key of Scion that Vividos
had magically transferred to him. Activating it, he directed its mys-
terious energy at the door. A click indicated to Stencil that the door
was now unlocked.

147

Pagan: Citima VILI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

ee *®

Upon opening the door he immediately heard the booming sound
of fireball bombs. He assessed the room quickly and raced around
an open lava fissure, targeting a pair of levers directly across the
room. Speed was of the essence. Throwing the lever on the left, he
heard and saw the narrow metal gate on the left drop. He ran to it
and ahead he saw a number of fire-spitting wall sconces. Timing it
very carefully, Stencil ran past the blasts, one after another, until he
found himself at a dead end. On his right was another bubbling
lava pit. To the left was a chest. When he opened the chest, he
found a pair of battered gloves and a well-worn helmet. He left both
for someone else to find. Stencil turned and ran back through the
fire blasts, returning all the way back to the room with the fire bombs.
Just before he entered the room, however, he tried the two levers
by the narrow gate to see if they would open the wide gate on the
other side. The right switch merely closed the gate; when he threw
the left he heard the sound of a gate moving somewhere nearby.
Hoping for the best, he ran through the narrow gate and saw that
the lever had in fact opened the wide gate. He bolted through it to
get past the deadly reach of the fire bombs that were exploding all
around him. Ahead, he saw a skeleton warrior standing against a
wall—axe and shield at the ready. Keeping one eye on the dormant
skeleton, Stencil quickly concocted a Grant Peace Spell just in case
the troublemaker came to life. Luckily he did not, but Stencil was
glad the spell was ready anyway.

Dodging more fire blasts he headed west, searching the corpses
as he went. Eventually he came to another gate. This one was open
and he went right through. Directly across from the gate was a tomb
with an inscribed plaque. What is this, wondered Stencil. He searched
the body in the tomb, locating two yellow potions. On the right was
a barrel, in which he found a third yellow potion. Since he was short
on space, he left all three. He rounded another corner and came to
a long corridor broken and oozing with lava. Rather than hop from
stone to stone, Stencil opted to hug the left wall, going east until
the hall offered safe passage once again. A little farther ahead he
found a glowing Scroll of Healing, which he took. He then came to
an open fence. Stencil went through the fence and onto an L-shaped
section of floor overhanging a lava pit. On the right was a tomb that
contained nothing more than a handful of useless bones.

Heading west, he saw a pair of skeleton warriors at the ready. He
braced himself for combat, but the skeletons remained quiet. How
odd, Stencil thought, for they appeared to be quarding an open
doorway. As he approached the entrance the doors slammed shut
and a fireball sconce blocked his way. Trying to avoid the fireball,
Stencil lost his footing. Struggling to regain his composure, he
jumped a little to the right. It was then that something very strange
happened—the lights dimmed and in the next instant Stencil found
himself inside a room full of marvelous treasures. Boxes, flasks,

148

 

a QOhapter 12 The Titan of Ether ®

weapons, and chests lay scattered and stacked everywhere. Going
from one to the next, he was astonished to learn that there were
many useful and enchanted items. He assessed each one’s worth
until he determined the right combination. He decided to take the
Flame Sting sword as his hand weapon. For armor, he donned the
odd square helmet and the glowing magical shield. He took some
other weapons as well, and vowed to experiment with them at the
next opportunity. Was it possible, he wondered, that he had finally
stumbled upon a weapon capable of downing those pesky skeleton
warriors for good?

Having pilfered everything he wanted, Stencil was turning to leave
when he stopped dead in his tracks—there was no way out! In panic,
he began feeling the wall for a hidden switch. He jumped and leaped
and tried to climb the wall. Nothing worked. He was backing up to
get a better view of the wall when suddenly the lights dimmed again.
He was on the outside once again. With these powerful new items,
surely his chances of leaving Pagan alive were considerably better.
He had a bad feeling about going any farther in the direction he was
heading, so he decided to leave. With a touch of his Item of Recall
he went to Argentrock Isle.

@ The Breath of Mind @

When he arrived, Stencil didn’t bother stopping in town, but went
directly to the Leap of Faith. With the power of his Air Walk Focus,
he made the jump to the first platform. As before, he leaped from
platform to platform until he stood by Stratos. Not wanting to be
lulled into complacence by the sweet voice, he cast Reveal on her
to expose her true identity. To the north, on a pedestal, was what
he was looking for: the Blackrock fragment. Using his Aerial Servant
Focus, he brought the Breath of Wind Blackrock fragment safely to
him. It was now time to get the final piece of Blackrock—he knew it
was the fragment that went to the sea, so he chose to search out
Devon, the fisherman. If anyone could help him, it was Devon. He
touched his Item of Recall and chose central Tenebrae.

@ The Tear of the Seas @

Stencil appeared as usual on the roof of the Great Palace. Without
pausing for a moment, he ran downstairs to the royal hall, where he
found Devon.

“Hello, Stencil.”

“I need the Blackrock fragment,” Stencil blurted out.

A confused look clouded Devon’s face. “I am sorry, my friend, for
once it is I who don’t understand you. What is this Blackrock frag-
ment?”

4

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide

“The Tear of the Seas.”

“I have not heard of it. What exactly is this Blackrock tear?”

“It is a large, dark stone.”

“Your description is vague. Considering the once active volcano,
I don’t think you will get far asking for a large dark rock. I...Wait!
Years ago, I cast my nets in a new area; the catch was plentiful. In
one of my nets I found a stone made of an unusually hard sub-
stance, even harder that obsidian. | still have it. Do you wish to
see it?”

“Yes,” Stencil said.

“I believe it is in a chest in my study. Here is a key. I hope it helps
you.”

The two men shook hands. Stencil thanked Devon for his gener-
osity and then took his leave. He went southwest and came to the
open door of Devon’s office. Looking inside, Stencil could see an
expensive wooden chest. As he walked to the box, he pulled out of
his pack the key Devon had given him. Being careful not to scratch
the chest, Stencil put the key into the keyhole. It turned with ease.
Inside was the last of the Blackrock pieces. He had all the pieces
required to recreate the Obelisk. He was so close to his goal, he
could almost see his home.

@ To the Ethereal Plane @

The next person he needed to see was Mythran—if anyone could
help him, it was he. So with a touch of his Item of Recall, Stencil
was off. He appeared on the Kecall Pad in Mythran’s peculiar home
on the plateau. He found Mythran deep in study on the second
floor. Stencil felt a little bad about disturbing the old man, but he
was too close to his goal to let that bother him. He broke into the
man’s thoughts with a greeting.

“Hello, Stencil,” Mythran greeted warmly.

“Hello, Mythran,” Stencil started, “I want to recreate the Obelisk.”

Shock registered on Mythran’s face and he exclaimed, “You want
to recreate the Obelisk! Do you mean you wish to reconstruct the
Blackrock Obelisk of the Great Temple?!?” Then it dawned on the
old man what Stencil intended to do. “Oh, I see, you want to use
the Obelisk as a conduit, a way to leave Pagan. I Know just the spell
you need. You must cast the Ethereal Travel Spell. I don’t know
where the spell will send you on your first attempt, though I expect
the Titans will intervene and direct your journey. Should you en-
counter and defeat them, know that you would have the worship
and admiration of all Pagans. Good luck. You are ready for the final
spell I can teach you. Before we begin, I must confess the eternal
pursuit of knowledge on this dreary island is costly. I am afraid |!

@- ®

 

150

Qhapter 2 The Titan of Ether

Good to see you, cag Friend

bere some assistance |.ce

a]
yous

 

must charge you a modest fee to help defray the cost of my studies.
Please accept my apologies for this inconvenience, but I must ask
for 250 Obsidian coins for the spell.”

Stencil was a bit alarmed when he heard this, for he did not have
the money. He hurried back to the Recall Pad where he had stock-
piled his money. A quick count confirmed he had only 187 coins.
Another setback. He would now have to find some money to con-
tinue his quest. Stencil teleported to central Tenebrae and began
searching residences—he was determined to search until he found
what he was looking for. Stencil took anything of value, it didn’t
matter. The money he kept in his knapsack, and the jewelry he sold
to Rhian for cash. When he finally had the 63 coins needed to bring
his total up to 250, he teleported back to Mythran’s. Again he found
Mythran upstairs deep in thought.

“Hello, Mythran, I want to buy the scroll now.”

“Ah, yes, the scroll, the Ethereal Scroll, right? I must still ask for
250 coins.”

“I will pay that,” Stencil said thinking of the stolen loot in his bag.

“Very well, here you go and good luck,” Mythran wished.

Stencil now had everything he needed. The time to leave this
place forever was at hand. Stencil took a deep breath and opened
the scroll.

15}


 

The End Gane

tencil appeared on a blue platform, floating in a black void

filled with stars. The platform was a large square, with four

paths leading off in the four directions of the compass. At

e start of each path was an archway, supported by skulls that
bore a remarkable likeness to the Guardian. He chose the path to
the north and walked under the archway. That path led him to a

 

 

& Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide ~

rectangular black building. When he entered the building he was
teleported to the Plane of Water, a place that looked very similar to
where he had found Hydros.

He followed the broken stone cliffs, northward. As he was walk-
ing along, a loud roar on his right drew his attention. A massive sea
serpent craned its neck out from the depths of the crystal blue
water. Its jaws opened in warning: “Fall into my waters and you are
mine,” it seemed to say. Stencil declined the invitation and contin-
ued on.

He came to a bridge. When he climbed up it, he found a large
section missing. He had to leap across it, for he found no other way
around the water. A little farther down the path he came to yet
another broken bridge, which he jumped with as much ease as the
first. Hardly a quarter mile away from the second bridge, he came
to a third. This one, like the others, was broken, but unlike the first
two it had shifted so that the connecting piece was now over his
head—instead of in front of him. He grabbed hold of the second
piece of bridge and by swinging his legs he gained enough momen-
tum to propel himself up onto the bridge segment. He took a moment
after this episode to rest. When he had regained his breath, Stencil
continued his quest to find Hydros. Walking west, it wasn’t long
before he came to an enormous marble monument. The structure
was gleaming white with a picture of a shark carved into the center.
As he approached, Hydros rose from the water.

“Don’t be foolish enough to think you can defeat me,” screeched
the Water Titan.

Stencil ripped open his knapsack and yanked out the Tear of the
Seas blackrock piece. The piece hummed in his hand when he aimed
it at Hydros, and she screamed even louder. Soon, she was no more.
A bolt of green lightning flashed and struck Hydros’s monument
and Stencil was teleported back to the Ethereal Realm.

Stencil wasn’t sure what had happened to the blackrock piece he
had used on Hydros, so he looked into his backpack to see whether
it was there or not. It was, only it was different now—it carried a
strange aura. Stencil reasoned that in defeating Hydros, her energy
had somehow been lent to the blackrock. Perhaps if he could gain
similar results with the other pieces it might be the key to his re-
turning home.

Stencil now had to choose another path to follow. He decided to
go under the archway to the west. When he entered the door to the
plane, his world dimmed. When the lights came up, he was in the
Plane of Fire. The temperature was also a dead giveaway as to his
location.

He followed the path to the north. When he came to a T-shaped
intersection, he opted to go east. The first thing he came to was a
star pattern on the ground with glowing squares on each of the ten
points. He tried to manipulate this star in many different ways, but

154

e Qhapter 15 "The Gnd Game »

he saw no outward signs that his efforts had caused anything to
happen. He decided to leave this puzzle for later and see if he
could come up with something, somewhere else.

Next he came to a bridge. When he reached the crest, he discov-
ered it was broken. The other side of the bridge was too far to
jump, so he returned down the bridge and continued east. After a
short walk, he came to yet another bridge. When he climbed up this
one, he found this bridge to be broken as well. The only difference
here was that he could jump to another section of bridge. Getting
as close to the edge as possible, he leaped far to his right and
landed on another section of the elevated structure. When he looked
down at what he had just jumped over, he saw a pit of the hottest
burning lava.

Stencil walked north from the bridge until he came to a large,
natural stone stairway. It was a long walk fraught with changelings
and seekers, but he finally made it to the top. It was here that he
came upon a sight that he had not seen since leaving Britannia: a
living tree. He hardly had a moment to reflect on how beautiful the
tree was when, from behind a stalagmite, a daemon emerged. Be-
hind him was another. Stencil darted to the east, where he discovered
a small elevated shrine with several wooden steps leading up to it.
Stencil flew up the stairs to see what was up there. At the top of the
shrine he found a small jewelry box. Inside the box he discovered a
number of small gray balls. He grabbed them all and stored them
into his bag.

He returned to the star puzzle, which just happened to have as
many glowing squares as he had gray balls. Stencil placed one of
the spheres on a blue square, and to his surprise, the ball turned
bright red and then disappeared. “Hmm...I wonder what will hap-
pen if I put a ball on each one of the squares,” Stencil thought. He
decided to give it a try. One by one he placed the balls on the
squares, and one by one they turned red and disappeared. When
the last ball had faded from sight, a platform rose out of the lava,
and behind that one came another. He concluded that he must
jump from platform to platform to reach Pyros.

When he had passed the platforms and again stood on solid
ground, he walked north. It wasn’t long before he came upon a
grisly sight—the bodies of several bloodied children lay scattered
about as if attacked by some vicious beast. The smell of sulfur
permeated the air. The combination of the dead babies and the
stench almost made him vomit. He swallowed hard and forced him-
self to press on. It wasn’t long before he came to a large circular
structure, flanked on both sides by two stone daemons.

Out of the center of this edifice rose Pyros, angry at being chal-
lenged by a mere mortal.

“I am impressed by your impudence, child. You shall be rewarded
by an eternity of torment!”

159

Pagan: Citina VITI— The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

JP

With that, Pyros breathed life into the stone daemons and sent
them to destroy the mortal. As the daemons approached, Stencil
reached into his bag and pulled out the Tongue of Flame that he
had gained from Malchir’s death. After using the fragment in a man-
ner akin to the one he had used on Hydros, the Titan of Fire ceased
to exist. As before, Stencil saw a flash of green lightning just before
he was returned to the Ethereal Plane. A quick check of his inven-
tory confirmed that the Tongue of Flame blackrock piece now carried
the same aura as the Tear of the Seas. “Two Titans down, two more
to go.” He chose to see which Titan lay to the south.

When he entered the plane he knew he was in the domain of
Stratos—the Titan of Air. Walking to the northeast, he came to some
floating platforms. To the east he saw a floating walkway that led to
some magical armor. But Stencil decided to forgo the eastern path
and the armor in exchange for whatever lay to the northeast.

He jumped from platform to platform to the northeast. Just be-
fore he jumped onto a very large platform, he heard the voice of
Stratos reprimanding him as a mother would a wayward child.

“Wicked, wicked child. You have tried my patience.”

In the next moment, Stratos made the wind rise and whip. Strug-
gling to keep from toppling to his doom, Stencil took the Breath of
Wind from his bag and used it on Stratos. When she saw what he
was doing she cried out, “Now what have you done, you ungrateful
child! Your greed breaks my heart.”

This was the last thing Stratos ever said, for she was now de-
stroyed. Once more, Stencil was teleported back to the Ethereal
Plane. In his bag was the Breath of Wind, shimmering as were the rest.

He had one Titan left to defeat, the Mountain King. By the pro-
cess of elimination, Stencil knew he must lay to the east. Through
the entrance Stencil found a stone passageway. He followed it to
the north and west, to a small ledge. He climbed the ledge with
ease. A little farther to the west the ground broke away from under
his feet. An investigation of the void revealed a sleeping ghoul laid
to rest in the hole. He left the ghoul! without searching the body.
Continuing to the west, he came across a slew of foes. There were
far too many of them for him to fight, so he sneaked his way be-
tween them.

To the west, he came to a wrought iron gate surrounding a pit of
lava. Taking note of several rocks laying on the ground, he grabbed
one and tossed it into the lava. It didn’t sink. He tossed another,
and this one did sink. Unable to think of any other way to cross the
lava, Stencil tossed rocks in until they formed a clearly marked
path. He skipped across the lava to the southwest, unharmed by
the bubbling molten rock.

When he reached the other side, Stencil was immediately con-
fronted by a skeleton warrior. He dealt with him by feinting to the
left and running past him to the right. From there, Stencil headed

156

+

— Chapter 13 “The End Game -%

north, then west. He came upon some platforms rising out of the
lava. The last thing he wanted to deal with was more platforms, so
he set out to find another way around. He noticed, at the outer
edge of the lava, a small ledge with cool orange lava beside it.
Stencil was overjoyed at not having to deal with the platforms after
all, and proceeded to cast Endure Heat on himself. Slowly and care-
fully, Stencil walked around the outer edge of the lava.

When he reached the opposing side he found himself in another
cavern, filled with the minions of Lithos. Moving as fast as he could,
he headed for the southwest corner of the cavern. It was here that
he found Lithos, the Mountain King. His reaction to Stencil was not
unlike that of the other Titans, but with the help of the Heart of
Earth blackrock fragment, his cries were silenced. The Mountain
King crumbled at Stencil’s feet. Again he was teleported back to the
Ethereal Plane.

He had finally energized all of the blackrock pieces, save the
Obelisk tip. He lent energy to the tip by using it on himself as he
had done with the other Titans. He felt a bit drained, but the piece
did not destroy him as it had the others.

He arranged the pieces on the giant gray pentacle found in the
middle of the Ethereal Plane. He put the Obelisk tip at the Aph-
elion. From there, he placed, in a clockwise order, the Breath of Air,
the Tongue of Flame, the Tear of the Seas, and the Heart of Earth.
When the pieces were in place, out of the center of the pentagram
rose a large black gateway. In the faces of the gateway he could see
the souls of those trapped by the Guardian.

 

157

Pagan: Cltima VILI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

.

 

Stencil collected himself for a moment. He knew this was the
way home. In him was a mixture of joy and sadness. Here in Pagan
he had met a great many people, worthy of his friendship and re-
spect. But more than anything he longed to be home in his beloved
Britannia. With a silent farewell to the people of Pagan, he stepped
into the gateway.

It was as if he were walking on clouds, soft and dreamlike. Tall
silver pillars stretched high into the sky, the tops far out of sight.
Stencil was pulled along by a power that remained unseen. When
he came to the end of the clouds, he was on a high cliff overlooking
the land he loved. The land of his birth. He was home at last and
had again outwitted the Guardian. Stencil hoped this would be the
last confrontation with the Guardian he would have, but in his heart
he wasn’t so sure.

158

 

Down and Dirty
(Calk-’Through

@ Chapter 2 @
AXrrive in Pagan

Talk to Devon.
Learn basic information about Pagan.
Roll up the bedroll, and put it in your inventory.

(atch the Execution

Go to the docks to watch the execution.
Approach the execution area, and witness Shaana behead Toran.
Answer Tarna’s questions.

@ Chapter 3 @
Meet the People of Tenebrae

Go into Tenebrae. Answer the guard’s questions.

Talk to the townspeople.

Find and activate the Recall Pad located on the roof of the Great
Palace.

Speak with Bentic

Go to the Library and speak to Bentic.

159

Pagan: Citima VITI— The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

ee ®

 

Ask if Devon knows how to leave Pagan. Tell him you want to
leave Pagan.
Ask about Mythran, and where he can be found.

@ Chapter 4 @
Bind Mipthran

Go through the cave, and cross the water by jumping from stone
to stone.

Cross the rope bridge.

Throw all the levers without bones or skulls in front of them.

Return across the bridge and use the lever in the small ruined
building to open the iron gates.

Avoid the traps in Mythran’s house by running straight through.

Get Korghin’s Fang, a dagger of increased accuracy, from the
backpack on the first floor.

Find Mythran.

Speak to Mipthran

Tell him you have many questions.

Tell him you wish to leave Pagan.

Tell him that you are not testing him.
Get the Item of Recall from Mythran.
Activate the Recall Pad.

Use Item of Recall and select Tenebrae.

160

ee Alppendix AL = Down and Dirty Catk’Through -
@ Qhapter 5 @
Go to the Cemetery and Find Vividos

Find Vividos in the large mausoleum in the center of the Cemetery.

He tells you of the Necromancers’ past and of the dagger that
Mordea has taken from them.

Ask about joining them.

Ask about the dagger.

Offer to get the dagger.

Return to central Tenebrae, via the Item of Recall.

Find the Ken to Moordea’s Sedroom

Go to the royal hall while Mordea is eating in the dining room.
Find the key to her bedroom. It’s under the black skull cushion.
Open the door to her bedroom and look for the dagger.

Talk to Airamina

Find Aramina’s home—a small wooden building in east Tenebrae.
She is there only at the hour of Bloodwatch.

Ask about the dagger.

Tell her she won’t get in trouble.

Get the key to open the closet in Mordea’s bedroom.

Return to the Great Palace.

Return to Mordea’s Bedroom

Use Aramina’s key on the inner door.
In the closet you will find a chest; open the chest.
Take the dagger.

Return to Vividos

Give Vividos the dagger.

View the ceremony.

Ask if he is the Necromancer and what a Scion is.
Ask to be his Apprentice.

Offer to get him reagents.

Return to Central Tenebrae via the Gast Road

Talk to the guard on the East Road.
Learn that Bentic was executed and that Devon is imprisoned.

 

16)

 

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide |

@ a

Find Deoon in Prison

Go to the Great Palace dungeon.
Use the switch next to the prison door to open it.
Tell Devon you will help him learn of Mordea’s motivation.

Find Salkind’s Inhouse
Learn of the logbook he keeps in his room

Read the logbook; it mentions forbidden research sealed in the
dungeon behind magically locked doors.

Return to Mithran’s

Talk to Mythran.
Buy the Scroll of Dispel Magical Portals from him for fifty
Obsidian coins.

Return to the Great Palace Dungeon

Use the Scroll of Dispel Magical Passage on the wall near the
dooriess room.

Read Bentic’s research.

The Palace guards will arrest you and take you to the docks.

Reveal that IOevon Is the Rightfal Keir

Tell everyone that Devon is the rightful heir.
Watch the ensuing battle.

Get Reagents for Vividos

Get a three-pointed stick from outside a burned-out house in west
Tenebrae.

Get Executioner’s Hood; it can be found off the East Road in a
sunken pit, guarded by changelings.

Retum to Vividos with Reagents

Get the Key of the Caretaker.
Read all of the books upstairs.
Take all available reagents.
Take the bag.

162

Appendix A =WDown and Ditty Cjalk-Through

 

 

@ Chapter 6 @

Go to the Cpper Catacombs

Go into the shrine, north of Vividos’s residence.

Cast the Open Earth Spell on the north wall of the shrine.

Watch as the wali crumbles; this is the entrance to the Upper
Catacombs.

The Cpper Catacombs

Find the small, roofless building in the northeast corner of the
Upper Catacombs

Enter the building; when the floor drops keep holding the right
button, then quickly click the left button. You will catch the other
side of the hole. Release the left button, then click and hold it again
to pull yourself up.

Kill the ghoul.

Open the box.

Take the magic leggings and coins.

Drop into the hole.

165

&
Speak with the First Dead Necromancer

Use the Death Speak Spell on the first dead Necromancer.
Learn the Mask of Death Spell.

Walk northeast until you come to a ridge. Climb it.

Avoid the kith and the three daemons.

Speak with the Second Mead Necromancer

Use the Death Speak Spell on the second Necromancer.

Learn the Rock Flesh Spell.

Go north, then west.

Cast the Rock Flesh Spell on yourself.

Kun through the corridor. The spell protects you from the lightning.

Speak with the Third Decromancer

Use the Death Speak Spell on the third Necromancer.

Learn the Summon Dead Spell.

Be teleported to a small plateau.

Go east through the lightning bolt fences and over a chasm.

Speak with the Fourth Necromancer

Use the Death Speak Spell on the fourth Necromancer.

Learn the Grant Peace Spell.

Be teleported to a different cave.

Get the reagents.

Go north, past the changelings, to a building in the middle of the
grassy area.

Enter the building, and be teleported to the next area.

Head south to some stairs.

Head north, then west.

Jump the lava.

Climb up onto the raised walkway.

Follow the walkway west, then north until you reach the end.

Jump to the next raised platform to the east.

After teleporting to the next cave go west, south, and west.

Bind the Fifth Necromancer

Use the Death Speak Spell on the fifth Necromancer.

Learn the Withstand Death Spell.

Be teleported to the next cave.

Go west, then north.

Follow the northeastern wall until you reach a Shooter with no
way around.

Pagan: Citima VILI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide 4
)
!

164

Alppendix AL §=‘Down and Dirty Malk-’Throvgh

Cast the Withstand Death Spell.
Head west, north, east, and north
Enter the building with the stairs.

Speak to the Sixth Necromancer

Use the Death Speak Spell on the sixth Necromancer.
Learn the Create Golem Spell.

Use the Grant Peace Spell on the spirit quarding the stairs.
Take the stairs to the Upper Catacombs.

Head south, west, south, and east.

Pass through the door to the Upper Catacombs.

@ Qhapter 7 @

Stone Cove and the Doors to the Kall of the
Mountain Ring

Find the gate in the southwest corner of the Upper Catacombs.
Move the switch on the stalagmite to lower the gate.

Find the large black double doors in the north wall.

Cast the Create Golem Spell on the dirt in front of the doors.
Command the golem to open the doors.

The Kall of the Mountain Ring

Head north.

Jump over the chasm.

Find the red-and-black checkered floor, to the north.
Climb over the building's wall.

Pull the switch next to the throne.

The Disappearing Bridge and the Dreaded
Floating Platforms

Return to the entrance to the caverns.

Go west until you come to a disappearing skull bridge.

Cross the bridge on the pieces as they appear.

Dodge the golem and follow the passage until you come to the
floating platforms.

Cross the chasm by jumping from platform to platform.

Lure the next golem to the south and run around him to the
north.

Jump across the next chasm on the disappearing platforms.

 

ee 2

 

e Pagan: Citina VITI— The Citimate Strategn Guide _g

The Force Field Maze

Go to the north.

When you come to the force fields, swallow a purple potion.
Go north through the force fields.

Find and open the chest.

Take the Gem of Protection and the key.

Return through the force fields.

Use the key you just found to open the door in the north wall.

The Stepping Stones

Go west, south, and west.
Head north until the cavern opens up.
Jump across the water on the stepping stones.

Find the Rep

Continue north.

Take the first passage to the west.

Go to the southwest corner of the cavern.
Find and open the chest.

Move the potions and get the key.

Go back to the main corridor.

Cse the Rep

Go north.

Take the second passage leading to the west.
Go north in this cavern.

Jump the water.

Open the door with the key you just found.

More Floating Platforms

Head west through the door.

At the end of the passage, go south.
Jump to the first platform.

Jump to the second platform at an angle.
Jump over the third platform.

Find Lithos

Walk to the south.
Activate the Recall Pad.
Walk north.

Lithos is the north wall.

166

Appendix AL §=‘Down and Dirty Walk-’Through

Ask to be Vividos’s Apprentice.
Say you will perform the Ritual of Interment.

Return to Vividos

Use the Item of Recall and choose central Tenebrae.
Return to the Cemetery.

Speak with Vividos.

Get the Key of Scion from Vividos.

Inter Lothian.

Agree to go on your pilgrimage.

@ Chapter s @
Return to the Cpper Catacombs

Head northeast to a building with a plaque saying, Towards fate
do you travel.

Use the Key of Scion to unlock these doors.

Go down the stairs.

Cross the lava to the west.

Go north, then northwest.

Avoid the rolling spiked balls.

Go north, then east.

Enter the room through the east wall.

oo

 

 

Pagan: Citina VIII— The Cltimate Strategu Guide _¢

 

+e
The Chest and the Skull of Quakes

Move the skull candles away from the levers.

Find the right lever to lower the fence.

Get the key out of the chest.

Follow the northern passage out of this room.

Go east and south.

Open the chest and take the Skull of Quakes.

Return to the passage leading to the room with the chest and the
fences.

Go north into the fence maze.

The Bence Maze

Enter the fence maze.

Go to the northeast corner of the maze.

Climb up on the raised platform.

Jump from the northwest corner of the platform.
Exit north out of the maze.

The Second Level

At first chance, go west, then south.

Avoid the rolling spiked balls.

Climb the west wall.

Go north to the gravestone that reads, AMREZHAR by the Ancient
Ones He Is Met.

 

 

Alppendix Al Down and Dirty Calk-Through

Cast the Open Earth Spell on the grave.
Jump down to the lower level.

The Marble Puzzle

Go south until you reach a fork in the road.
Go west, then east.
Enter the room with the marbles all over the floor.

Throw a marbie at the top of the tall structure on the other side of
the gate.
Go north through the now lowered gate.

Get the Revs

Retrieve the keys that are under the two platforms.
Jump over the light beam trip wire and go north.
At the T-shaped intersection go east.

The Stair Puzzle

Number the pressure plates in front of the three stairways, from
left to right: 1, 2, 3.

Place the clock on the pressure plates in this order:
5,1,5,2,1,2,2,5,5,1,5,2,1,2,1,5,2,5,1,2,5,1,5,2,1,2

& =®

Make sure the stair stops moving before moving the clock again.
Go up the stairs and through the newly created door.

 

@

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategn Guide »

At the top of the stairs cast the Rock Flesh Spell on yourself.
Run through the light beams and down the stairs.

Go west to the locked door.
Open the door with one of the keys from under the platforms.

Find the Kew and Place the Shield

Walk down the center aisle, until you reach the altar.
Look under the dead body on the right to find a key.
Place the shield you got from Mythran on the altar.

The Zealan Statues

Walk forward until you are standing among the statues.
Listen to them tell you of Khumash-Gor and the piece of blackrock

called the Obelisk tip.

Khumash-Gor and the Obelisk Tip

Concoct a Grant Peace Focus.
Use the Dispel Magical Portals Scroll you bought from Mythran to

open the doors.

Use the Grant Peace Spell on the ghost of Knumash-Gor.
Open the small box on the right to find the Obelisk tip.

Speak with the Statues Aigain

They speak of a fifth element and that this is your destiny.

 

HO

Appendix AL =‘Down and Dirty Calk-’Throvgh

 

ep

 

Find and Aictivate the Recall Pad in the
Cpper Catacombs

Return to central Tenebrae, and go to the Cemetery.

@ Chapter 9 @

Find Airgentrock Isle

Enter the Upper Catacombs as before.

Go to the southeast corner of the catacombs.

Find the red hole in the wall.

Stick the Skull of Quakes into the hole.

When the lights come back up, enter the new hole in the floor.

Activate the Recall Pad.

Go in the direction of Stone Cove.

When you pass the natural stone bridges, look for the doorway to
the east.

Take the cobblestone path to Argentrock Isle.

Cross the bridge and find the Recall Pad.

Speak with Aavier

Find Xavier in the monastery; he is wearing a blue sleeveless
shirt and carrying a sword.

Wi

 

a Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide "i

Learn about Argentrock Isle, the Theurgists, and Enlightenment.
Ask for Enlightenment.

Take the Test of @isdom

Read the books in the monastery to get the answers to the test.
The answers to the test are:

Tell the truth about the battle.
Welcome your child home.
Sacrifice your sight to heal the sick.
Remain quiet.
Weapons destroy, wit builds.
Always give truthful testimony.
Comfort the sad child first.
Enjoy breezy evenings on the porch.
Tend the injured.

. Look for honesty in companions.

Take the Test of Centeredness

Ask Xavier to administer the second test.

Go to Windy Point: it’s a tall platform to the west of the monastery.
Climb the platform.

Stay on top until the wind stops.

Return to Xavier; he will tell you to speak with Stellos.

Speak with Stellos

Find Stellos. He is wearing white robes with dark blue trim.

He tells you that you must prepare your Foci.

Obtain the key to the caverns from him. He tells you to get silver
ore from below the monastery.

Go below the monastery via the stairs in the kitchen.

Head east from the cavern entrance.

Unlock the door with the key from Stellos.

Go east past two electrical fences.

Find eight pieces of silver ore.

Construct Your Foci

Teleport to central Tenebrae and go to west Tenebrae.

Find Korick in a large singe-story stone building in the southwest
corner of west Tenebrae.

Ask Korick to make your Foci one at a time.

Return to Argentrock Isle.

Enter the monastery.

Place each Focus one at a time on the altar in the center of
the room.

SCRE NASSeeS

a

172

 

Fippendix AL =‘Down and Dirty Calk’Throvgh _p

Find Torwin and speak with him; he is wearing a blue shirt with
no sleeves, but no sword.

Speak with Cyrrus; he is in a white robe with light blue trim.

Find Stellos again and tell him of your completed Foci.

Take the Third Test

Ask to take the third test; Stellos will send you back below the
monastery.

Once in the caverns below the monastery go west to a ledge.

Cast the Aerial Servant Spell to retrieve the wounded Torax from
the other side of the chasm.

Use the Healing Touch Spell on the Torax.

a -_
Xavier's Missing Focus

Talk to Stellos; he will tell you that Brother Xavier’s Healing Touch
Focus is missing.

Talk to Xavier. He will tell you of Torwin’s odd research.

Talk to Stellos again. Say you talked with both Torwin and Xavier.

Talk to Cyrrus.

Cast Hear Truth on Cyrrus, to learn of what Torwin is doing.

Go to Windy Point.

Talk with Torwin; after he takes the Leap of Faith retrieve the
Healing Touch Focus he drops.

Return to Stellos and tell him you found the lost Focus.

Give the Focus back to Xavier.

 

ee

 

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide ¥

 

&
Take the Leap of Raith

Talk to Stellos again. He tells you it’s time to take the Leap of
Faith.

Return to Windy Point.

Stand between the pillars at the ledge and jump.

Jump from platform to platform until you come to a very large
platform.

Talk to Stratos and receive the Air Walk Focus.

Learn about the Breath of Wind blackrock fragment.

@ Chapter 10 @
Find QCarthax Lake

Return to the Upper Catacombs, outside the entrance to
Argentrock Isle.

Take the passage to the south.

Take the east passage and jump over the lava.

Now go south past the lightning bolt fence the entrance leading
to Carthax Lake.

Throw a switch on the wall to the lower gate, then use the Key of
Scion to unlock the door.

Find Knpdros

Activate the Recall Pad.

Go west, south, then east, following each direction as far as you
can go before turning.

Go north to the edge of the water.

Follow the water until you find a bridge.

Take the bridge until you come to a break, then jump across the
break to the other section.

Follow the crosspiece that is attached to the second section of
bridge; it leads west, then north.

Find the white marble platform leading out into the water.

Walk out onto the platform.

Speak with Kydros

Agree to free Hydros.
She telis you that you must open the ground near the grave of
her captor.

Appendix AL §=Down and Dirty alk’ Through

ee ®

Release the Cater

Return across the bridges and head west to find a cave entrance.

Run past the troll.

Enter the next cave.

Head west until you see a wall on the north with large spikes on
the top.

Climb over the wall between the spikes.

Head north until you come to a wall with a fence built into it.

Pull the left switch, walk through gate.

Go west; avoid a second troll.

Go through the next gate and continue north, then west. Take
the magical armor from the chest guarded by the troll.

Go west again.

Walk along the right wall to avoid the water.

Go north, then east through the cave entrance.

Go north.

Find the tombstone and cast the Open Earth Spell.

Return to Hydros.

Learn that Devon is now in danger from Hydros.

Go to Devon in the Great Palace.

Tell him you will resolve the storms.

@ Chapter 1) @
Find Daemon's Crag

Return to the Upper Catacombs.

Go north and east from the entrance to Carthax Lake.

Find the hidden switch on the wall to open a secret door.

Use the Key of Scion on the locked door.

Go through the lava tubes, jump down from the ledge, and walk
to the western edge of the lava.

Speak with Bern

Talk to Beren across the lava.
Use the Air Walk Focus to reach the spot where Beren was.

Find Bane

Pick your way south across the lava, staying on the stone
outcroppings.

Walk through the center passage on the south wall.

Activate the Recall Pad.

Take the first path west to find Bane in her house.

Tell her your name.

ze)

Pagan: Citina VITI— The Cltimate Strategy Guide

—ai

 

Ask about the Enclave, Morgaelin, the current Sorcerers, the Aco-
lytes, and the First Acolyte.

Agree to her task.

Learn her true name.

Speak with Vardion

Reveal your name.

Tell him that you go where you will.

Ask about the First Acolyte, and his dealings with Tenebrae.
Agree to his task.

(Catch Bane Kill Vardion

Tell Bane Vardion’s true name.

Watch as she summons a daemon and converses with Malchir.
Accept the vacant position.

Agree to take the tests.

Get the key to the library from Bane.

Study and Get Items from the Library

Go to the Library; it is west and south from Vardion’s.

Learn the spells. Learn about the blackrock fragment and the
Ritual of Flame.

Grab all the wands, rods, and symbols you can find.

Take three candles of each color.

176

Appendix Al Down and Dirty Calk-Through

+ ®

 

Take as may reagents as you can hold.
Return to Bane.

Take the Test

Create Flame Bolt, Endure Heat, and Flash Spells, using the pen-
tagram on the floor.

The Obsidian Fortress

Go to the Obsidian Fortress. It is northwest of the library, across
a stone bridge.

Talk with Malchir.

Banish the daemons summoned by Malchir, or run past them.

Go down the stairs to Arcadion’s lair.

Talk to Arcadion; he is a large daemon.

He offers you the use of his pentagram and reagents.

Walk into the room with the pentagram.

Make sure you have these Foci in your inventory before going any
farther: Extinguish, Ignite, Flash, Flame Bolt, Endure Heat, Armor of
Flames, Explosion, Summon Daemon, and Banish Daemon.

Walk to the platform located at the back of this room.

You are teleported to the Trials.

The xtinguish Trial

Cast Extinguish on yourself to put out the burning pentagram.
Take the symbol from under the helm in the center of the penta-
gram.

The Flash Trial

Cast the Flash Spell to get past the Fire Mushrooms and the spiked
balls.

Banish the daemon.

Get past the spirit and retrieve the blue symbol.

The Endure Kyeat Trial

Avoid the skeletons and ghouls while getting through the maze.
Cast the Endure Heat Spell to cross the lava.

Cast the Banish Daemon Spell on the daemon quarding the chest.
Cast a Trap Destruction Spell on the chest.

Open the chest and retrieve the blue symbol.

The Armor of Flames Trial

Cast the Armor of Flames Spell on yourself as soon as you enter

this trial area.

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategn Guide ®
Walk east until you come to a shrine with four stone spiders
around it.

Get the magical shield.
Go south and get the blue symbol.

Malchir’s Inner Sanctum

Return to Arcadion. He will now tell you the teleporter will take

you to Malchir.
Talk to Malchir.
Cast Flame Bolt, Explosion, and Summon Daemon, in this order,

at Malchir.

The Ritual of Blame

Do everything that the other Acolytes do.
Watch the ritual.
Be punished by Malchir.

Malchir’s Death and the Tongue of Flame

Return to Malchir. Once he is dead cast the Extinguish Spell on
yourself to get out of the ring of flames.

Search Malchir; read his book, entitled THE TONGUE OF FLAME.

Also take the piece of blackrock called the Tonque of Flame.

Take the Tongue of Flame through the Great Pentacle to release
the firestorms.

Return to the Upper Catacombs and go to Stone Cove.

@ Chapter 12 @
The Kyeart of Garth

Go to the Pit of the Dead; it is behind the door with the spikes.
Use the Key of Scion to open these doors.

Find the half-destroyed building.

Create a golem to open the doors on the south side of the building.
Climb into the center arena.

Cast the Open Earth Spell on the tombstone.

Get the Heart of Earth.

The Secret Treasure Room

Return to the Upper Catacombs.
Find the golden door in the northwest corner of the Upper

Catacombs.

&

1%

Alppendix AL 9 ‘Down and Dirty Calk’Through

Use the Key of Scion to open the door.

Cross the room and throw the left switch.

Run through the narrow gate.

Throw the levers next to the narrow gate.

Run though the narrow gate to find the wide gate is now open.

Go through the wide gate.

Go west.

Open the next gate with the switch on the wall.

Go through the gate.

Rounding the corner, hug the left wall to get past the unsafe
corridor.

Continue east.

Go through the fence.

Step onto the L-shaped section of floor overlooking a lava pit.

Go west until you find a door guarded by a skeleton warrior.

Face a recess in the north wall.

Jump high toward the wall.

You will be teleported to a secret treasure room.

Take a magical helmet and shield and the Flame Sting saber.

Jump toward the wall you came in; you will be returned to the
outside of this room.

The Breath of Wind

Return to Argentrock Isle.

Use the Air Walk Focus to jump across the Leap of Faith.

Talk to Stratos.

Cast the Reveal Spell.

Use the Aerial Servant Spell to take the Breath of Wind from the
pedestal to the north.

The Tear of the Seas

Go to central Tenebrae.

Talk to Devon.

Get the key to the chest in his study.

Find his study in the southwest corner of the Palace.

Open the chest and take the Tear of the Seas blackrock piece.

To the Ethereal Plane

Go to Mythran’s.

Buy the Ethereal Travel Spell for 250 Obsidian coins.

Use the spell.

You are teleported to a blue platform floating in a black void.

>

 

&-

179

@ Pagan: Citing VILI—The Citimate Strategu Guide ®
@ QOhapter 13 @
The Plane of Cater

The Plane of Water lies to the north.

Once you enter the black building you are in the Piane of Water.

Follow the rocky path to the north.

At the water’s edge you will see stepping stones. Go west, jump-
ing from stone to stone.

Use the Tear of the Seas on Hydros.

You are returned to the Ethereal Realm.

The Plane of Fire

The Plane of Fire lies to the west.

Once in the plane, follow the path north.

When you have gone north as far as you can, go east.

Go east until you pass two bridges; climb the second bridge.
Jump off the broken end to the other side.

Climb the large natural stairs.

Find the shrine.

Climb the stairs and take the gray spheres out of the jewelry box.
Return across the bridges.

Go west until you find the glowing star puzzle.

Place one gray ball on each of the squares, around the star.

 

 

Aippendix A =Down and Dirty Calk-Through

ee ®

The balls will turn red and disappear.

Out of the lava, stepping stones will rise.

Jump from platform to platform across the lava, heading north.
Find Pyros to the north.

Use the Tongue of Flame on Pyros.

Be returned to the Ethereal Kealm.

The Plane of Air

The Plane of Air lies to the south.

Leap from platform to platform in a northeasterly direction.
Use the Breath of Wind on Stratos.

Be returned to the Ethereal Kealm.

The Plane of Garth

The Plane of Earth lies to the east.

Go northwest.

Toss rocks onto the lava to reveal an invisible walkway over
the lava.

When you reach the other side go north and west until you come
to some platforms.

Jump the platforms to get over the lava.

Find Lithos in the southwest corner of this cavern.

Use the Heart of Earth on Lithos.

Be returned to the Ethereal Realm.

 

 

Pagan: Citins VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

& ®

 

 

The Black Gate

Use the Obelisk tip on yourself.

Place the energized fragments on the gray pentagram.

Put the Obelisk tip at the Aphelion and then in a clockwise order
place Air, Fire, Water, and Earth.

Walk through the Black Gate.

}82

@

 

The Pagan Library

The Books of Garth @

The Big Book of Adventure:
By Sladek

Recorded on these pages are tips I have found while on my adven-
ture. Read well, fellow quester, for your life may well be saved by
recalling these in your time of need.

Puzzles You will be in luck if such puzzles are played with le-
vers. These usually require little time, if you watch your
surroundings for clues.Central levers usually reset the puzzle.
Traps If there is a chest sitting innocently in the open, touch it
not! Especially if it has many corpses around it! These are the
other dolts who fell for it.

Chests of Loot Rarely do chests have anything in them. Open
them at your own risk. It will serve you well to carry a magical
scroll to check for traps within thesel

Tricks of the Trixter Judge them by their cover for they read differ-
ently than other books...

Mazes Always mark your path! Use rocks or wood. Never bread
crumbs! Beware of treasure! It is there to lead you from the
pathi

Spell Chits Always read the text on the outside of these scrolls
to identify them. Once you have opened them, their magic will
immediately be released.

185

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategu Guide 2

 

e
Dispelling Miuths: The Troch Albout Magic

Many are the rumors of the magical and the supernatural that exist
outside of the Titanic magic. Now, of course any reasonable person
knows that any such thing is nonsense. Any thinking person must
know that the Titans are the only magic in the world. However, in
the interest of fairness, for any who may doubt that the true magic
is held by the Titans, I have investigated three well-known reported
cases of magical occurrences that fall outside of the Titans’ influ-
ence. The first episode of magic that I investigated was an occurrence
in which a woman who lives outside of Tenebrae claimed to know
something about a ghost who had some magical capabilities. The
woman’s name is Kilandra, and she makes her living as a fisher-
woman. Let me assure all that this woman knows nothing of the
supernatural. In fact, Kilandra knows virtually nothing at all. Quite
frankly, I found this woman to be completely mad. She would ramble
on constantly about her daughter to such a point that I began to
believe that her daughter does not even exist. All of the outlandish
stories about her daughter could not apply to just one
person. Therefore, in my expert opinion, the daughter is purely fic-
tional. Anything else that Kilandra had to talk about were things
that the fish told her. Therefore, it is perfectly clear that this woman
is completely mad and anything that she has to say cannot be be-
lieved. The second event that many people have reported as magical
is the mysterious lights of the Plateau. Very few people have even
reported having seen these, yet the lights have lived on in Pagan
lore for a very long time. Many people believe that these lights are
some sort of magic, which is generated by some unknown force of
nature. Others believe these lights to be some sort of magical en-
ergy created by the hermit that lives upon the Plateau. Such opinions
are, of course, the result of people spreading unsubstantiated ru-
mors without looking into basic facts. I have disproven the myth
that these lights even exist by doing what others simply would do: I
took a leisurely stroll up to the Plateau and investigated things my-
self. | walked up to the Plateau, which, by the way, is a lovely walk
that I recommend for everyone, at least once.Once on the Plateau,
I met with the old hermit who lives there. Now, I must say that this
was the most difficult part of my investigation. This old man, Mythran
is his name, was a gruff, unfriendly fellow. This Mythran has nothing
to do but lay about all day long, yet getting him to answer my ques-
tions was like pulling teeth from a troll. He spoke to me in short,
sharp sentences which he usually spit into my face. And the worst
thing of all is that this silly old man thought that he knew more of
the world than I did! Well, I did manage to get Mythran to assure me
that there were no magical lights that danced about upon the Pla-
teau. Iam sure that he would not lie to me as I am employed by the
Lady Mordea and therefore carry her influence. The third instance

184

 

ae Aippendix 8 "The Pagan Library _»

of magic that I have disproven beyond the shadow of a doubt is the
alleged existence of a magical axe, called Deceiver. This axe is sup-
posed to be found on a small island off of Stone Cove. The island,
which cannot be seen by land, is supposed to be reached by stones
that rise above the water, only to sink again in a matter of mo-
ments. As I had no intention of going through those awful catacombs,
I sailed to Stone Cove to investigate. I can assure you, one and all,
that there is no island off of Stone Cove and there is certainly no
magical ax. Nor did I see any rising and sinking stones. Of course,
the stones were the only plausible part of this ridiculous story. I did
think it quite possible for the Lurker to create just such a thing, so
that She may amuse Herself. So there you have it, dear reader.
Irrefutable proof that there is no magic in the world other than that
which the Titans have chosen to create. I realize that this book may
take a little bit of fantasy out of some people’s daily lives, but if we
are to better serve Our Lady, we must all live in the here and now.

Groogaan’s Kyelpful Guide to Mushrooms

Although many forms of vegetation disappeared after our sun ceased
its cycling and our world entered into a state of eternal twilight,
many plants, especially mushrooms, have adjusted to the lower
level of sunlight. Mushrooms have prospered and have become the
dominant form of vegetation on our landscape. These range from
the man-sized monster Brown Cap all the way down to the finger-
sized, yellow-and-red Silent Sleeper. Most mushrooms are edible;
mushrooms like the fist-sized Blue Bulgie and the Green Capper
are delicious with any meal, although they sometimes may be con-
fused by the less experienced for the blue-and-green Daemon’s Paw,
which can cause rashes, blisters, and general bladder distress. A
helpful mushroom known for its healing properties is the yellow-
and-green Adventurer’s Friend, found in the wild. When consumed,
these mushrooms tend to restore health, as well as give the con-
sumer a general feeling of euphoria. Known to keep monsters at
bay is the Stench Mushroom. Applying small quantities of this mush-
room to our skin is quaranteed to ward off most creatures, except
for those who are undead, who seem to be quite attracted to its
pungent odor. The only way the smell of the mushroom can be
removed, once applied, is by bathing in the juice of the Ammotio
plant. A mushroom that you should generally stay away from is the
Fire Mushroom. This little mushroom is unusually high in sulfurous
ash and tends to explode when stepped on.

Bentic’s Fournal

In my investigation of the royal blood line, I have uncovered many
facts and these facts have led me to more questions: Keldan the

185

 

ee Pagan: Citina VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide »

farmer, son of Treal—forced to marry Lord Kean’s daughter, Celidia;
why would royalty want such a simple man? Keldan and Ariel. Did
Celidia ever know? If so, when did she find out? And how? Ariel had
a Child, a son. Did Keldan send her away to protect them from
Celidia or did Celidia order it? Celidia demanded a child. Mordea is
bom with the powers of Tempestry. Yet, Lord Kean was no Tem-
pest, nor was his wife. But where is Keldan and Ariel’s son? Both
mother and child were sent to live with the fishermen. Devon knows
not his own father...could Devon be a Tempest?!I? If so, by his
being the first bom, his powers would be stronger than Mordea’s. I
must investigate this further, although if Mordea should uncover
my quest my life would be forfeit...

The Final Sunlight:
By DMolandry the Blind Ldiot of Tenebrae

The final moments of sunlight were glorious moments, ones we
would have cherished had we known they were to be our last. The
war against our very kindred seemed never ending, day after day of
bloodshed. In their eyes burned the hatred of intolerance. And these
flames kindled the fire of violence. After a while, it became easy to
forget the faces of those you had slain—a sister with one chop, an
uncle with another. Yet still they came, outraged that we dared to
listen to the voice of warning. By the time the Destroyer came we
were ready. Not for the Destroyer, but for an end to the fighting.
Too many had not heeded, so we thought. Too many refused to
acknowledge the might of the Titans. We were doomed to devasta-
tion, but with the doom came the sickening thought of peace and
silence. In the end, we wondered, would Pagan and Zealan know
one from the other as lifeless corpses filling the pyres, the result of
the Destroyer’s carnage. But then came the Titans. First rose Lithos,
the Mountain King. Then came Stratos, the Mystic Voice and her
sister Hydros, the Lurker. Finally, the blazing image of Pyros, Lord
of Flame, appeared to challenge the Destroyer. On the ground, both
Pagan and Zealan alike ceased battle, awed by the presence of these
Titanic Elements. The sky became a whirlwind of smoke, dust, and
hail as the Titans joined forces and began to rise up. As the battle
was fought above, the very land upon which we stood was rended
piece from piece; mountains shifted, rose, and spewed fiery death.
Wind ripped through buildings and torrents of water cascaded over
the walls of the cities. The very enemies who stood against each
other, bared fangs and flashing eyes. We were unable to face off—
blinded by smoke, tumbled by the quakes, scorched by the searing
flames. There was naught but chaos. And when the fight ended and
the Destroyer was vanquished, there was naught but ruin. The quakes
ceased, the winds slowed, the waters calmed. Pagan again saw

186

ee Aippendix 8B The Pagan Library »

peace. Despite the recent battle, the moment was one of serenity.
But the sun was no more. There is no knowledge of where the light
of the sky had gone. There is no true night, but there is no true day.
And the Titans, demanding ever-increasing sacrifices in payment
for their deeds, offer no answers.

Garthen Magic

Beware unto any who may read this tome: The power of the Moun-
tain King is great, and the dread sovereign of all. Clay and Earth are
to be feared and respected. Therefore, as you read the words of
might contained within these pages, know that the power the Moun-
tain King will grant to you is great. Use the power that you learn
here wisely and remember: the Mountain King can take from you
anything that He has given you. Do not abuse that which you learn,
while in the services of the mighty Lithos. The first spell that the
student of Earthen Magic must learn is the Open Ground Spell. The
use of this spell will open the sacred clay of our Father, and allow
you to enter therein. The reagents needed for this spell are Blood
and Blackmoor. Speak the words Des Por Ylem to create the magic
token, then you shall be allowed to envelope yourself in the arms
of the Mountain King. The second spell that a Student must learn is
Death Speak. This must be for the student to first learn from the
long dead Necromancers of old. From their dead lips shall come
words of knowledge and power. So that the student may speak to
his dead tutors, the student must know Death Speak.The reagents
needed for Death Speak are but Blood and Bone. Use these re-
agents together with the words Kal Wis Corp and the student shall
then be able to learn from the ancient Necromancers.

Motiens: Necromancer, Prophet, Kyero

Let none doubt that no greater hero did ever walk the lands of
Pagan that the Immortal Moriens. Moriens did earn the title of
Immortal as he still walks at the right hand of the Mountain King.
Dead in body, but not in spirit, Moriens’s legacy of greatness and
heroism will live on into eternity. Many young children who have
not yet learned of Moriens’s true wonderment do often look with
innocent, upturned eyes and ask with voices filled with awe of the
great man of which they’ve heard their playmates speak. Then do
the parents sit down with their children and tell them the story of
the greatest of all magic users. The First Necromancer, Moriens‘s
greatness became obvious when he was still a young boy. At the
age of seven he slew a troll that did threaten his father. Although
the troll was terrible and large, an armed with a deadly club, Moriens
stood unafraid. The blessed child, Moriens, stood with a sharp stone
in hand and hurled the stone with a very great force. The stone

187

@ Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide ®

struck the troll in the eye and landed with such a force that the troll
did fall dead, and Moriens’‘s father was saved. The great feats of
Moriens did not end with his victory over the troll. When Moriens
was just beginining to grow into manhood, a strange man did come
into his village. This stranger did speak well and claim to be a
prophet. Many people did come to hear this man speak for he did
offer salvation to those who would follow him. But Moriens in his
great wisdom did see the man for a charlatan and rebuked him.
When the others heard Moriens, they too saw that the man was a
false prophet and did stone him to death.

Such was the greatness of Moriens. But the greatess story of
Moriens’s greatness is the story of the pact which Moriens made
with the Mountain King. Great is the power of the Earth Titan and
terribly did he shake the ground. For, unbeknownst to mortal man,
the Mountain King did have a great hunger for human flesh. There-
fore, Lithos would tear open the land and in would spill his victims.
Moriens knew of Lithos’s longing, for Moriens was wiser than any
other. Without fear, Moriens did tread beneath the ground to find
the Mountain King. In the City of the Dead, Moriens did confront the
great and mighty Mountain King. Lithos shook the ground, yet still
was Moriens unafraid. When Lithos asked why Moriens had come
before a Titan, Moriens told Lithos that he knew of the Titan’s hun-
ger. Therefore did Moriens offer a bargain with the Mountain King.
Should Lithos spare the people above the ground and let them live
to old age, Moriens himself could ensure that upon death. All of the
remains would be offered on to Lithos. If this bargain should be
kept, promised Moriens, the almighty Titan would have his fill and
the people above could then live unafriad. Lithos, being most
impressed with this fearless mortal which stood before him, did
agree that such a bargain would be a good thing. Then did Morien
promise that he personally would inter all of the dead, giving over
their bodies to Lithos. So impressed by Moriens courage and self-
sacrifice was Lithos that he did give his Necromancer a great prize,
the Heart of the Earth. This treasure, which is the largest diamond
shaped object in the world, is made of a pure and lovely blackrock.
So rare is this blackrock that there are only five pieces of it in the
entire world. And so proud was Moriens of his treasure that he did
vow to never give it up, but to carry the Heart of the Earth into the
City of the Dead and hold it for eternity. Countless are the stories of
Moriens‘s greatness and power, truly too many for this tome to con-
tain. But to tell any more of Moriens’s glory would be immodest and
unworthy of such a noble man. This then ends the incomplete life
story of Moriens: Necromancer, Prophet, Hero. So written by my
hand in the Great Tomb, completed at the time of Bloodwatch,
Moriens Necromancer.

 

188

e FAppendix 8 The Pagan Library
The Books of Air

The Spell of Restoration

One of the most powerful spells available to the Theurgist, the
Spell of Restoration restores the recipient to full health, pro-
viding the recipient is still alive upon the beginning of the
casting. It will eliminate wounds and maimings and will cure
disease. This spell is one that the Theurgist will find to be in
great demand. The Focus for this spell resembles an open hand.
The words that must be uttered upon casting the spell are “Vas
In Mant.”

The Speil of Reveal

The Spell of Reveal is a dissipation spell, meaning that it will
actually dispel another type of magic, specifically the Spell of
Invisibility. When the Theurgist casts this spell, a wave of en-
ergy moves away from the caster in ever-increasing concentric
circles. These energy waves will dispel all forms of invisibility.
The Focus used for this spell is an open eye, and the casting
words are “Ort Lor.”

The Spell of Aerial Servant

One of the more impressive of the Theurgic spells, Aerial Ser-
vant is also one of the most versatile. Upon casting, a whirling
being of air is called into existence. This being will accept the
Theurgist’s directives to manipulate or move any object. One
of the more interesting aspects of this spell is that the Aerial
Servant is able to move objects through another solid object,
such as a door or wall. The Focus used is an arm band and the
casting words are “Kal Ort Xen.”

The Spell of Rade from Sight

The Spell of Fade from Sight is another very versatile spell, as
it allows the caster to become invisible to the sight of nearly all
mortal beings. The Focus representing this spell is a closed
eye. The words to be spoken are “Quas An Lor.”

The Spell of Air Walk

The Air Walk Spell is the most highly valued spell a Theurgist
can learn, for it is only through the use of this spell that a
Theurgist can reach Stratos and hear the Mystic Voice. When
this spell is cast, the Theurgist is capable of jumping a great
distance with the aid of the surrounding air. It is interesting to
note that the first time a Theurgist experiences this spell is
when he has completed the Tests and seeks Strathos for the
first time. If Stratos is pleased with the Theurgist, then she will
grant the spell without the use of a Focus. From that point on,
however, the Theurgist must have the Focus representing wings
to cast this spell. The words of power are “Vas Hur Por.”

189

>

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Cltimate Strategu Guide

The Spell of Kyealing Touch

The Spell of Healing Touch is the least powerful of the healing
spells of Stratos and one of the first usually learned by Adepts.
The Focus necessary to cast this spell represents a pointing
hand. The words that must be uitered are “In Mani.”

The Spell of Divination

The Divination Spell is a most practical spell. It allows the caster
to know his exact location, the time of day, the day of the
week, and the current month. The Focus necessary for casting
this spell resembles a sextant. The spell also has a vocal as-
pect. The words that must be uttered are “In Wis.”

The Spell of Intervention

The Spell of Intervention is a powerful spell. Upon casting the
Spell of Intervention, the Theurgist calls into being a wall of air
that blocks all damaging forces. While this spell will protect the
caster from all blows and striking attacks, it will not protect the
caster from immersion in lava or water. The Focus for this spell
resembles a fist and the words used are “In Sanct An Jux.”

The Spell of Kyear Troth

A useful spell for any number of reasons, the Spell of Hear
Truth allows the Theurgist to hear both what the speaker is
saying and the truth. If the speaker is indeed speaking untruth-
fully, the truth, as if carried on a breeze, will come to the caster.
The Focus resembles a chain. The words spoken upon casting
are “An Quas Lor.”

Spell Recipes

Qxplosion
A bolt of flame is released when the Sorcerer invokes the
Explosion Spell, shooting forth unerringly to the object of the
Sorcerer's ire. Upon reaching its destination it explodes, causing
heavy damage to all things caught within it’s range.
Runes
-Vas Ort Flam
Red candles
-Perivolcan Pa, Mesostel Ze, and the Aphelion
Reagents
-Ash at Mesostel Ze
-Purnice at Perivolcan Pa
-Iron at Mesostel Pa
-Brimstone at the Aphelion
Ignite
The Ignite Invocation brings fire into existence upon a sub-
stance that will accept it. It can be used to light a single candle

i,
*

i)

 

&

Alppendix B The Pagan Library 2

 

or, if the Sorcerer focuses the energy upon himself, it can light
all within a range determined by the power of the Sorcerer.
Runes
-In Flam
Red candles
-Aphelion
Reagents
-Ash at the Aphelion
-Pumice at both Perivolcanae

Airmor of Blames
The Sorcerer is bathed in a corona of flames that ward off fire
of a magical nature. These flames will protect the Sorcerer for
a time, then vanish.
Runes
-Vas Sanct Flam
Red candles
-Both Pervolcanae and Mesostel Ze
Reagents
-Ash at Mesostel Pa
-Obsidian at both
Pervolcanae
-Iron at the Aphelion
-Brimstone at Mesostel Ze
Qxtinguish
By use of the Extinguish Spell, the caster attempts to douse a
fire. When focused upon the Sorcerer himself, all fires within a
certain range will be quenched; otherwise it will douse the fire
upon which it is specifically focused.
Runes
-An Flam
Red candles
-All black
Reagents
-Purmice at both Perivolcanae and the Aphelion

Endure Kyeat
The Endure Heat Spell creates a shimmering field around the
Sorcerer that will allow him to touch any nonmagical flame and
remain unhurt. A Sorcerer with this spell active can even en-
dure the heat of lava if it is solid enough to support his weight.
Kunes
-Sanct Flam
Red candles
-Both Perivolcanae
Reagents
-Obsidian at both Perivolcanae
-Iron at the Aphelion

at
e
iy :

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

o— “9

Banish Daemon
The Banish Daemon Spell attempts to force a daemon to re-
turn to the Plane of Fire from which it was summoned. Although
not always successful, this is a Sorcerer's best defense against
these beasts.
Rune
-An Flam Corp Xen
Red candles
-Both Perivolcanae, Mesostel Ze, and the Aphelion
Reagents
-Ash at Mesostel Pa
-Pumice at Mesostel Ze
-Iron at both Perivolcanae
-Daemon bone at the Aphelion

Summon Daemon
This dangerous ritual of binding will summon a daemon to at-
tack a foe of the Sorcerer’s choosing. The danger of this spell
lies in the fact that if no victim is specified the daemon will
attack the summoner.
Runes
-Kal Flam Corp Xen
Red candles
-Both Perivolcanae, Mesostel Pa, and the Aphelion
Reagents
-Ash at the Mesostel Ze
-Pumice at the Mesostel Pa
-Obsidian at both Perivolcanae
-Daemon bone at the Aphelion

Blame Bolt
A bolt of flame is released when the Sorcerer invokes the Flame
Bolt Spell, shooting forth unerringly to the object of the
Sorcerer’s ire. Upon reaching its destination, it explodes, caus-
ing moderate damage to all things caught within its range.
Runes
-In Ort Flam
Red Candles
-Perivolcan Ze, Mesostel Pa, and the Aphelion
Reagents
-Ash at Mesostel Pa
-Pumice at Perivolcan Ze
-Iron at Mesostel Ze

Flash
By means of the Flash Spell the Sorcerer can move from one
visible place to another without actually traversing the inter-

vening space.

Fippendix 8B The Pagan Librarp

Runes

- Flam Por
Red candles

- Both Perivolcanae and the Aphelion
Reagents

- Ash at both Mesostelae

- Pumice at the Aphelion

The Art of Flame:
80 Maedrom

The First Acolyte of the Cabal Fire is the Crucible of Life. Before it,
all impurities are burned away. All that remains is a pure, unclouded
will. A Sorcerer should revel in this and know that power is his
servant. The will of the Sorcerer is the Crucible of the reagents. But
I speak herein not of reagents, but instead of the Foci of
Sorcerery.The first focus we Sorcerers created was made by casting
a metal disk with shavings of a blackrock-like substance. This sub-
stance was found throughout the island, and in fact all of our Foci
use this substance, to a greater or lesser degree. The disk was then
engraved with the pentagram symbol of Fire. This dedicates it to
our purposes. No Sorcerer should be without this symbol, as it is
the outward token of our superiority. A note about the Sorcerers’
pentagram symbol: it may cast several of the Ignite Spells as well as
the Extinguish Spell. Any other power, it may cast but once. The
symbol, while versatile, lacked power. So we crafted a wand. It was
only stable with less of the blackrock, but a gem from the core of
the volcano gave it the power necessary. These Fire Gems focused
the will of the Sorcerer's own inner fire. The casting capacity of the
Sorcerer’s wand has the power to focus the Ignite and Extinguish
Spells in quantity, as well as the Flash and Flame Bolt Spells to a
slightly lesser degree. In an attempt to further increase the prowess
of our spells, we created a rod, suffused with blackrock, with a fine
gem at either end as well as the center. This Focus allowed the
casting of spells of a defensive nature, in addition to those of the
wand Casting capacity of the Sorcerers’ rod. This focus can cast the
urand spells in greater measure, and is empowered to cast the En-
dure Heat, Fire Shield, and Armor of Flames Spells. Master Corodin
continued upon the work of the others by making another Focus in
a Similar vein. It is formed mostly from solid blackrock, fused into
the shape of a staff by the power of Pyros. At either end, it holds a
Fire Gem, capped within the blackrock metal. The casting capacity
of the Master’s Staff is unknown, but it can cast Create Fire and
cause explosions as well. I myself, becoming consumed with the
idea that a more efficient, more powerful Focus was possible, crafted
the most powerful Focus of all. Using the bones of Pyros’s daemonic
servants, I made a fine powder. Then mixing this powder with clay

1%

Pa Pagan: Citina VILI—The Citimate Strategu Guide »

and blood of said daemon, I fashioned a small replica of it skull
with fire gems as its eyes. I baked it in the heat of lava, and it
hardened to the strength of good masonry. With this talisman, I was
able to summon daemons to do my bidding, and banished them
with mere words. The wielder of this Focus should truly be consid-
ered the Master of the Enclave.

The Tongue of Flame

This object, named by Corodin, the first Master Sorcerer, has been
handed down from Master to Master since the binding of Pyros. It is
the key to the power of the Sorcerers. If you are reading this book,
then most likely you are now the Master Sorcerer, having either
outlived or killed the Master. As such I admonish you always to
keep both this book and the Tongue in a safe place away from
prying eyes!

The Tongue was used in the binding to house a portion of Pyros’s
being. This allows all Sorcerers to call upon his powers in ways that
we have defined as spells. The rituals involved are used to provide
protection for the Sorcerer creating the enchantment. Another power
that the Tongue imparts to the one who wields it is the ability to
amplify the power of spells and spell Foci. Perhaps its most impor-
tant purpose is its ability to summon forth and banish Pyros himself.
This is a truly dangerous exercise and requires four Acolytes, but
the rewards can be great. His knowledge is often useful, and His
power is seemingly limitless, as is His temper. Should He become
free in this Ritual of Fire, as is quite possible, know that you have
most likely doomed Morgaelin to a flaming death.

A final warning: Should the Tongue of Flame ever enter the Great
Pentacle, the fate of all Pagans will be sealed. The Lord of Flame
shall be rejoined with the power in the Tongue and as a result, He
will be forever unbound.

 

Index

@® A ®@

Acolytes, 127, 128
Adept, 111
Adventure Quarterly, 47
Adventurer’s Friend, 47
Aerial Servant
Focus, 111, 149
Spell, 173, 189
Air
Plane of, 181
Titan of the, 101-117
Air Walk
Focus, 126, 149, 174
Spell, 116, 189
Altar of Passage, 61
AMREZHAR, 96, 168
Ancient Necromancers, 69, 70
Aphelion, 132, 133, 137
Appointments, 11
Apprentice, 62
Aramina, 11, 59-61, 161
Arcadion, 134, 135, 139
Argentrock Isle, 101-117, 119,
125, 149, 171, 172
Recall Pad location, 13
Armor, 19
Armor of Flames
Spell, 135, 139, 191
Trial, 139, 177
Art of Flame, 132, 193, 194
Attributes, 14

® B @

Bane, 126-128, 131-133, 141,
175, 176
Banish Daemon
Focus, 138, 141, 143
Spell, 155, 137, 139, 192
Barracks, Palace, 42
Bedroll, 11
Bentic, 27, 45-47, 159
Bentic’s Journal, 65, 185, 186
Bentos, 76
Beren, 141, 142, 175
Beverages, 6
Big Book of Adventure, 183
Black Gate, 182
Black potion, 15, 48
Bloodwatch, 11, 39
Blue Buigie, 47
Blue potion, 15, 48
Bombs, 15, 16, 17
Books, 17
of Air, 189-194
of Earth, 183-189
Bottle of Oil, 15, 16
Breaking and entering, 5
Breath of Air, 156, 157
Breath of Wind, 117, 149,
174, 179
Bridge of skills, 83
Brother Xavier, 103~106,
112-114, 116, 171-174

195

Pagan: Citima VITI—The Citimate Strategy Guide

 

—
® CQ @

Caretaker, Key of the, 10, 68,
69, 71
Carthax Lake, 119-121, 125,
174, 175
Recall Pad location, 13
Casting spells, 69
Catacombs
Lower, 47
Recall Pad location, 13
Upper, 29, 68, 71-80,
91-99, 119, 144, 145,
147, 163, 167, 171, 175
Cemetery, 14, 57, 58, 88, 99,
161, 167, 171
Centeredness, Test of,
104-106
Ceremonial Dagger, 58-61
Ceremonial Shield, 92, 98
Ceremony of Eternity, 61
Changelings, 18
Chests, 15-17, 42, 185
City of the Dead, 115, 188
Climbing, 7
Clocks, 11
Create Golem
Focus, 82
Spell, 82, 165
Creating Foci, 106-108
Combat, 13, 14, 19
Cyruss, 114, 173

® D ®@

Daemion, 127
Daemons, 19
Daemon’s Crag, 12, 127, 144
Recall Pad Location, 13
Daemons Paw, 47
Darian, 6, 66-68
DayTide, 11, 39
Death Disks, 16, 19
Death Speak
Focus, 73, 74, 76, 80
Spells, 70, 73, 74, 79,
164, 165

Deceiver, 185

Devon, 25-27, 63-68, 125,
149, 150, 159, 160-162,
175

Dexterity, 14

Disciple, 127

Dispelling Magical Portals Scroll,
98, 170

Dispelling Myths: The Truth
About Magic, 184, 185

Docks, 29-352, 66-68, 159

Door of Fate, 147

Dungeon, 65, 162

@® € ®@

books of, 183-188

Plane of, 181
Earthen Magic, 187
Elder Tonque, 127
Endure Heat

Focus, 133, 135

Spell, 138, 139, 157,

177, 196

Trial, 137-139, 177
Ether, 99

Titan of, 145-151
Ethereal

Plane, 156, 179

Realm, 154

Travel Spell, 150
Eventide, 11, 39
Execution, 29-32, 159
Executioner’s Hood, 62
Explosion

Focus, 141

Spell, 135, 190
Extinguish

Spell, 135, 1435, 191

Trial, 136, 177

@® F ®@

Fade from Sight Spell, 189
Falling, 7
Fence maze, 94, 168

ig

>

+

Tadex

Fifth Necromancer, 79, 164
Final Sunlight, 41, 186, 187
Fire
bombs, 9
Gem, 16
Mushrooms, 47
Plane of, 180, 181,
sconces, 9
Titan of, 125~144
First Acolyte, 127, 128
First Necromancer, 74, 75, 164
Firstebb, 11, 39
Flame Bolt
Focus, 133, 135, 140
Spell, 140, 142, 177, 192
Flame Sting Focus, 18, 149
Flash
Focus, 1353-136
Spell, 1357, 1177, 192
Trial, 136
Flasks of oil, 15-19
Floating platforms, 85, 84, 86,
87, 165, 166
Floor spikes, 9
Foci, 106-110
Food, 5, 6
Forcefield maze, 84-86, 166
Forgotten Riches of Knarl, 47
Fourth Necromancer, 77,
78, 164

@ G @

Galious, 79
Gem of Protection, 85, 166
Ghouls, 14, 18
Grant Peace
Focus, 78, 98, 99, 170
Spell, 78-80, 101, 158,
164, 165
Great Palace (see Palace), 149
Great Pentacle, 141, 143,
144, 157
Green Capper, 47
Green potion, 15, 48

Groogaan’‘s Helpful Guide to
Mushrooms, 185
Guardian, 20, 27, 34, 157, 158

Hall of the Mountain King, 13,
81-88, 145, 165
Healing Touch,
Focus, 111, 112
Spell, 173, 190
Health status, 14
Hear Truth Spell, 190
Heart of the Earth, 145-147,
157, 178, 188
Hidden items, 5
Hit points, 10, 11, 15, 16
Hydros (see also Lurker), 99,
120-122, 154, 174, 175

® I ®@

Ignite Spell, 135, 190

Initiate, 106

Inner Sanctum, 134, 140,
141, 178

Interment of Lothian, 28, 89

Intervention Spell, 190

Invisible foes, 18

Item of Recall, 12

e® 7 ®@

Jumping, 7

@® HK ®@
Key

of Scion, 19, 89, 92, 102,
119, 125, 145, 147,
168, 175
of the Caretaker, 10, 68, 69,
71, 162
ring, 9, 10
Khumash-Gor, 98, 99, 170
Kiths, 19
Knapsacks, 9

#

—®

ee

Pagan: Citina VIII—The Cltimate Strategn Guide

 

Korghin’s Fang, 160
Korick, 37, 108, 109

@® L @

Lady (see Mordea)

Lastebb, 39

Lava, 8

Leap of Faith, 149, 173, 174

Levers, 17

Library, 45-48, 159, 176,
183-194

Lieutenant Vittek, 29

Lithos, 28, 87-89, 156,
157, 166

Lord of Flame, 129, 141

Lothian, 54, 61, 89, 168

Lower Catacombs, 47

Lurker (see also Hydros), 27,
50, 115, 120-122, 185

@® M @

Malchir, 131, 134, 140, 141,
176, 178
Mana, 3, 14, 15
Points, 10, 11
Marble room, 96, 169
Mask of Death Spell, 74, 164
Master, 126
Mazes, 4, 183
fence, 94, 168
forcefield, 84-86, 166
Mesostel Pa, 1352, 133
Mesostel Ze, 132, 133
Monastery, 103-108, 114, 172
Money, 6, 18
Mordea, 26, 27, 29-31, 66-68,
161, 184
Mordea’s room, 58-61, 161
Morduin, 130
Morgaelin, 127
Moriens: Necromancer,
Prophet, Hero, 36, 187,
188

Moriens’s birthplace, 89
Mountain King (see also Lithos),
61, 156, 157
Mouth of the Daemon, 126
Mushrooms, 5, 6, 47, 185
Mystic Voice of Strathos,
104, 116
Mythran, 6, 12, 17, 47, 48,
52-55, 65, 150, 151, 160,
162, 184

@ 1) @

Necromancers, 36, 54, 161
First, 74, 75
Second, 76
Third, 76
Fourth, 77, 78
Fifth, 79, 80
Sixth, 80
Necromancers’ Test, 73-80
North Cave, 50

QO ®@

Obelisk tip, 99, 150, 151,
157, 170
Obsidian
coins, 6
Fortress, 134, 143, 177
Official Logbook of Crimes and
Punishments, 64
Oil, bottle of, 15, 16-19
Open Earth
Focus, 96, 101, 122
Spell, 69, 91, 146, 147, 163,
169, 175
Open Golem Spell, 146
Open Ground
Focus, 71
Spell, 71
Opponents (see also specific
opponents), 18, 19
Orange potion, 11, 15, 48
Order of Enlightenment, 108
Orlock, 36

 

198

~®

Ge

Index

@® Pp @

Pact with Lithos, 27
Palace, 39-45, 55, 57, 58, 60,
61, 65, 66, 88, 99, 159,
161, 162, 175
Pentacle, (see pentagram)
Pentagram, 132, 141, 143,
144, 157
Perivolcan Pa, 132, 133
Perivolcan Ze, 132, 133
Pit of Death, 90, 115, 141
Plane
of Air, 156, 157, 181
of Earth, 181
of Fire, 154-156, 180, 181
of Water, 154, 180
Plateau, 49, 184
Cave, 50
Platforms, 8
floating, 83, 84, 86, 87
Pointing Hand Focus, 109
Potions, 11, 14, 15, 18, 48
Pouches, 10
Power Hammer Cave, 52
Puddles, 8
Purple potion, 15, 48
Puzzles, 42, 169, 183
Pyros, 99, 141-144, 155, 156

@® R ®@

Reagents, 6, 10

Recall
Item of, 12
Pads, 12, 13

Red potion, 11, 15, 48
Resting, 10, 11, 14
Restoration

Focus, 189

Focus, 189
Resurrection Spell, 112
Reveal

Focus, 189

Spell, 149, 189

Rhian, 44, 45
Ritual

of Death, 54

of Flame, 141, 178

of the Interment, 28, 167
Rock Flesh

Focus, 74

Spell, 97, 164, 170
Running, 7

@® Ss ®@

Salkind, 60, 66-68, 162
Salkind’s bedroom, 64
Saving your game, 3, 4, 7
Scion, 62, 161
Scrolls, 6

of Dispell Magic Passage,

65, 162

of Healing, 47, 148

of Invisibility, 47

of Restoration, 47, 64

of Restore Sight, 47

of Trap Destruction, 16

of Trap Detection, 16, 47
Sea of Rains, 26
Searching for items, 5
Second Necromancer, 76, 164
Secret Treasure room, 178
Seekers, 19
Seneschal, 60
Sextant Focus, 109
Seventh Necromancer, 76
Shaana, 34-36, 66-68, 159
Shield, magic, 139, 170
Shrine, 29, 101
Silver, 108, 109
Sixth Necromancer, 80, 165
Skeleton warriors, 18
Skull of Quakes, 29, 94, 101,

168, 171

Sorcerers, 126-144

Cabal, 126, 127

Enclave, 12, 126, 127
Sorcery, test of, 126

199

Se

Pagan: Citina VITI—The Cltimate Strategy Guide

 

Spellbooks (see also specific
books), 6, 17, 110
Spells
casting, 10, 69
chits, 42, 183
creating, 10
learning, 187
recipes, 190-194
Spirits, 19
Stacking items, 10
Star puzzle, 97
Status panel, 14
Stealing, 4
Stellos, 107, 108, 111-116,
172-174
Stone Cove, 80-85, 102, 145,
147, 165, 171, 185
Stratos, 99, 101-117, 126,
149, 156
Strength, 13, 14, 16
Summon
Dead Spell, 77, 164
Daemon Spell, 135,
140, 195
Switches, 17

® T

Talisman (see also Focus), 69
Tarna, 30, 159
Tear of the Seas, 149, 150,
154, 156, 157, 179
Teleporting, 12, 13
Tempest, 26, 27, 29-31, 66-68
Tempestry, 120
Temple of Divine Hydros, 59
Tenebrae, 26, 33-48, 59, 60,
63-65, 68-70, 88, 99,
159, 160-162, 167, 171,
172
Recall Pad location, 13

 

Tenebraen ale, 6
Test
of Centeredness, 104-106,
172
of Wisdom, 104, 105, 172
Theurgist, 44, 104
Third Necromancer, 76, 164
Threemoons, 11, 39
Time, 11
Titan, 41, 54, 99, 184, 185
of Air, 101-117
of Ether, 99, 145-151
of Fire, 125-144
of Water, 119-123
Tongue of Flame, 142-144,
156, 157, 178, 194
Toran, 30, 159
Toraxes, 19, 111
Torwin, 110, 111, 114, 115
Trap Destruction, Scroll of 16
Trap Detection, Scroll of,
16, 47
Traps, 16, 17, 42, 183
Trick books, 42
Tricks, 183
Trials
of the Sorcerers, 134—140
Trolls, 19
True name, 127

Upper Catacombs, 29, 119, 68,

147, 163, 167, 171, 175

@® V ®@

Vardion, 127-131, 176

Vittek, Lieutenant, 29

Vividos, 19, 54, 57, 58, 61-63,
68-70, 88, 89, 161, 162,
167

200

—)>

Or
em @e

Walking and running, 7
Walk-through, 159-182
Water, 8

Plane of, 180

Titan of, 119-123
Weapons, 19
West Tenebrae, 34-43
Windy Point, 105, 114,

116, 174

Wisdom, Test of, 104, 105
Withstand Death

Focus, 79

Spell, 80, 164

@ X @

Xavier, 103-106, 112-114,
116, 171-174

®ve

Yellow potion, 15, 48

@® Z ®@

Zealan, 41
book, 92
statues, 97, 98, 170

OF €.

MORE PRIMA COMPUTER GAME BOOKS FOR YOUR ENJOYMENT

@ The 7th Guest: @
The Official Strategy Guide

RUSEL DeMARIA
Welcome to Stauf’s Mansion ... Oooh! Bad Movel!

It isn’t exactly a walk in the park, is it? The 7th Guest: The Official
Strategy Guide is your passport into the world of the hottest-selling
CD-ROM around. Take a walk through this haunted 3-D world and
discover its secrets. Venture into this book and find:

A full walkthrough with clues to every puzzle

A complete dramatization of the events of this mystery

All the puzzle solutions in a quick reference section
Background on the making of The 7th Guest and an exclusive,
behind-the-scenes interview

Not only that, you get the original 7th Guest script and complete
list of clues and comments made by Stauf. Here’s the door; we’ve
got the key!

Rusel DeMaria is Creative Director of Prima’s Secrets of the Games
series and head of DeMaria Studios. He is the author of many best-
selling computer and video game strategy books, including X-Wing:
The Official Strategy Guide (Prima).

3556 pages
$19.95
1-55958-468-8

@ Princ of Pasia and /rince of Peavsia 2: @
The Offical Strategy Guide

RUSEL DeMARIA

Inside secrets of Prince of Persia revealed by the creators of the game!

Broderbund’s Prince of Persia is one of the most popular and
enduring games for both computer and video consoles. The recipi-
ent of many awards, the Macintosh version recently won the coveted
Eddy award from MacUser Magazine. Prince of Persia and Prince of
Persia 2: The Official Strategy Guide is the only source of informa-
tion direct from the game’s developer, Jordan Mechner. Mr. Mechner
has collaborated with the author to bring you a complete walkthrough
of both games, with plenty of detail on how to succeed at this very
tricky game. Every secret is revealed! Every puzzle solved! In addi-
tion, DeMaria reveals, for the first time anywhere, the real story of
the Prince and how he came to Persia! All Prince of Persia fans will
want this book, which also contains original fantasy artwork by the
renowned artist, Jeff Menges.

Rusel DeMaria is the Creative Director of Prima’s Secrets of the
Games series and author or co-author of many books, including
Ultima: The Avatar Adventures (Prima, 1992).

200 pages
$14.95
1-55958-375-8

@® Most: The Official Strategu Guide @

RICK BARBA AND RUSEL DeMARIA

Welcome to the MYSTerious island! Are you feeling a bit MYSTified?
Does everything seem all MYSTy now? Are you thinking you might
have MYST something?

Well, you've come to the right place for help. Myst: The Official
Strategy Guide is the ultimate, authoritative source of answers and
information about Myst Island and the Ages of Myst. Inside you'll find:

A complete, fictionalized walkthrough of the game

Detailed examinations of the puzzles and the reasoning be-
hind them

Screen images of the most important locations

Overhead views of Myst Island and the Ages

“Quick and Dirty” solutions for players in a hurry

But that’s not all! You also get the following special bonuses:

@ Early sketches and concept materials used to create the Myst
environment
@ Special renderings of objects from the world of Myst

Rick Barba is a game designer and author of Stunt Island: The
Official Strateqy Guide and Computer Adventure Game Secrets (both
from Prima).

Rusel DeMaria is Creative Director of Prima’s Secrets of the Games
series and head of DeMaria Studios. He is the author of many
bestselling computer and video game books, including Prince of
Persia: The Official Strategy Guide (from Prima).

160 pages
$19.95
1-55958-480-7

 

®@ Return to Zork Aldventurer’s Guide @

STEVE SCHWARTZ
Beware the Grue at Night! A Vulture Might Carry You Off!

Return to Zork is the mesmerizing, intriguing, sensory-intensive ad-
venture game from Infocom that sets a new standard for fantasy
role-playing games. Return to Zork Adventurer’s Guide is the defini-
tive companion book to this compelling—and very fascinating
interactive adventure. Inside you get:

@ Multiple levels of hints that enable you to get just the informa-
tion you need

@ Tips on how to interact with the clever characters you’ll meet
during your explorations

@ Essential strategies to help guide you through the games’ labyr-
inthine plot

@ Answers to the brain-teasing puzzles that you must solve to
continue your adventure—including those found only in the
CD-ROM version

All of this valuable information is highly illustrated with pictures
and detailed, annotated maps of the game. Also included is a com-
plete game walkthrough to help you discover unexplored territories,
experience situations you may have missed, and improve your final
score.

Steve Schwartz is a professional writer, computer expert, and
psychologist. He has written about computer and home arcade
games for more than 15 years and is the author of more than a
dozen computer and game books. He is the author of Battletoads:
The Official Battlebook and Parent’s Guide to Video Games (both
from Prima).

160 pages
$14.95
1-55958-5354-X

Secrets of the Games
NOW AVAILABLE FROM PRIMA

COMPUTER GAME BOOKS

SimEarth: The Official Strategy Guide

Harpoon Battlebook: The Official Strategy Guide

The Official Lucasfilm Games Air Combat
Strategies Book

Sid Meier’s Civilization, or Rome on 640K a Day

Wing Commander | and II:
The Ultimate Strategy Guide

Chuck Yeager’s Air Combat Handbook

Ultima: The Avatar Adventures

A-Train: The Official Strategy Guide

PowerMonger: The Official Strategy Guide

Global Conquest: The Official Strategy Guide
(with disk)

Gunship 2000: The Official Strategy Guide

Dynamix Great War Planes:
The Ultimate Strategy Guide

SimLife: The Official Strategy Guide

Populous: The Official Strategy Guide

Stunt Island: The Official Strategy Guide

Ultima VII and Underworld: More Avatar
Adventures

X-Wing: The Official Strategy Guide

Prince of Persia: The Official Strategy Guide

Empire Deluxe: The Official Strateqy Guide

F-15 Strike Eagle III: The Official Strategy Guide
(with disk)

Lemmings: The Official Companion (with disk)

Secret of Mana Official Game Secrets

The 7th Guest: The Official Strategy Guide

Myst: The Official Strategy Guide

Return to Zork Adventurer’s Guide

Microsoft Flight Simulator:
The Official Strategy Guide

Strike Commander: The Official Strategy Guide
and Flight School

Might and Magic Compendium: The Authorized
Strategy Guide for Games I, II, Ill, and IV

SimFarm Almanac: The Official Guide to SimFarm

Computer Adventure Games Secrets

Quest for Glory: The Authorized Strategy Guide

Falcon 3: The Official Combat Strategy Book,
revised ed.

$19.95
$19.95

$19.95
$19.95

$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95

$24.95
$19.95

$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95

$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95

$24.95
$24.95
$14.95
$19.95
$19.95
$14.95

$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95

$19.95

SimCity 2000: Power, Politics, and Planning
SSN-21 Seawolf: The Official Strategy Guide
Master of Orion: The Official Strategy Guide
Outpost: The Official Strategy Guide
Betrayal at Krondor: The Official Strategy Guide
Alone in the Dark: The Official Strategy Guide
Dracula Unleashed: The Official Strategy

Guide & Novel
CD-ROM Games Secrets, Volume 1
Sherlock Holmes, Consulting Detective:

The Unauthorized Strategy Guide
Pagan: Ultima VIII—The Ultimate Strategy Guide
Rebel Assault: The Official Insider’s Guide

$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95
$19.95

$19.95
$19.95

$19.95
$19.95
$19.95

Secrets of the Games
NOW AVAILABLE FROM PRIMA

VIDEO GAME BOOKS

Nintendo Games Secrets, Volumes 1, 2, 3, and 4

Nintendo Game Boy Secrets, Volumes | and 2

TurboGrafx-16 and TurboExpress Secrets,
Volumes 1 and 2

GamePro Presents: Nintendo Games Secrets
Greatest Tips

GamePro Presents: Sega Genesis Games Secrets
Greatest Tips

Super Mario World Game Secrets

The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past—
Game Secrets

Sega Genesis Secrets, Volumes 1, 2, 3, and 4

Sega Genesis and Sega CD Secrets, Volume 5

Super Star Wars: The Official Strategy Guide

Official Sega Genesis Power Tips Book,
2nd Edition (in full color!)

GamePro Presents: Super NES Games
Secrets Greatest Tips, Second Edition

Super NES Games Secrets, Volumes 1, 2, 5, and 4

Super Empire Strikes Back Official Game Secrets

Super NES Games Unauthorized Power Tips Book

Battletoads: The Official Battlebook

Parent’s Guide to Video Games

Sega Genesis Games Secrets Greatest Tips,
Second Edition

Sega Genesis Games Secrets Greatest Tips,
Second Edition

Sega Mega Drive Games Secrets Greatest Tips,
Second Edition

Sega Genesis Games Secrets, Volume 6

Sega CD Official Game Secrets

Eternal Champions Power Tips Book

$12.95
$12.95

$11.95
$11.95

$11.95
$12.95

$12.95
$12.95
$12.95
$12.95

$14.95

$12.95
$12.95
$12.95
$14.95
$12.95
$12.95

$12.95
$12.95
$12.95
$12.95

$12.95
$9.95

each
each

each

each

each

U.S. $19.95 ELECTRONIC ENTERTAINMENT
U.K. £18.49 NET ADVENTURE ROLE-PLAYING

~~ Alone in the World of Pagan,
Your Only Allies Are the Sword at Your
Side and This Life-Saving Guidebook!

our very survival is now in your hands. The evil Guardian has plucked you, the Avatar,
from your sovereign state and dropped you on the world of Pagan—a dark, magical place
where people live in fear of the evil powers that prey upon them. To prevent the Guardian's
plans for world conquest, you must battle the evil minions of Pagan.

Here is your essential survival guide, loaded with practical information on everything from building
strength to identifying traps to knowing which mushrooms you can eat and which potions you can
drink. Inside you'll find the secrets to turning the Guardian's evil magic against himself, including:

@® DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS of characters, settings, and items
@T IPS on which spells work best against which foes

® STRATEGIES for controlling the Avatar in this new world where running, jamping, and
climbing can determine your fate

@ CLUES to puzzles revealed through easy-to-follow, lively narrative

@ SECRETS not found anywhere else—inclading « path to « remarkable hidden treasure room
loaded with magic weapons, armor, spells, and potions

Detailed tables describe the strengths and weaknesses of enemies and the uses and dangers of items.
Annotated maps aid you through your travels. Plus, a special reference to every important book
discovered in the game saves you from memorizing, transcribing, or carrying cumbersome volumes.

Joe Hutsko, author of Rebel Assault: The Official Insider's Guide (Prima), is a full-time writer whose
stories on technology and digital fun have appeared in GamePro, Multimedia World, PC Games,
Electronic Entertainment, Newsweek, Wired, and many other magazines, Before turning to writing, he
worked for Apple Computer, Inc. as a technology advisor.

Raymond Lueders has been tackling computer games for more than a dozen years. He is a freelance
writer, graphic production artist, and the author of many
books and magazine articles that contain in-depth solutions ISBN 1-55958-594-3

and precise gaming strategies. 51995>
9°781559°585941

SECRETS OF THE GAMES
An Imprint of Prima Publishing

 
