You little thief! I will destroy you! 
Stop that. 
Leave my things alone! 
This is your last warning! 
That is all I will take! 
I represent the entire Cabal here. 
Do you know who I am? 
I will kill you if you diturb my things again. 
Beren the late Sorcerer 
Beren the Sorcerer 
Beren the deceased 
Beren
dead Sorcerer 
Sorcerer 
dead mage 
mage 
Greetings stranger. I am called Beren, and you? 
My name is 
.
It does not matter. 
I cannot tell you. 
Well met, 
. 
As you say. It does not matter to me either. 
Interesting, you wish to remain a mystery. I like mysteries, to a point. 
I see. Perhaps the question was a little too intellectual for you. Ah, well. It matters not to me. 
And what do you seek of me? 
Yes, 
, is there something you want?
Alas, never to have a moment of peace. What do you want, 
?
Did you forget something, 
? It does tend to happen when the mind is over-taxed.
Yes, is there something you want? 
Alas, never to have a moment of peace. What do you want? 
Did you forget something? It does tend to happen when the mind is over-taxed. 
I believe you have over-stayed your welcome. Unwanted guests are not treated with kindness here, 
My patience is at an end. Whatever you want, be quick about it. 
This is unbearable. Have you never heard of polite behavior, 
? It has the wonderful benefit of allowing differing peoples to exist together harmoniously. The alternative is strife. You seem to choose the latter.
I believe you have over-stayed your welcome. Unwanted guests are not treated with kindness here, stranger. 
This is unbearable. Have you never heard of polite behavior? It has the wonderful benefit of allowing differing peoples to exist together harmoniously. The alternative is strife. You seem to choose the latter. 
I will now give you the most important lesson of your life. Learn it well, I'll only be able to teach it to you once, fool! 
Ah, 
Greetings once again, 
What brings you here, 
? 
Ah, the stranger returns. 
Greetings once again. 
stranger? 
How may I be of assistance? 
And what can I do for you? 
Your manners could do with some refinement, 
I am a Sorcerer. If you cannot adress me as such, do not adress me at all. 
Until you can be civil, 
, I suggest that you do not speak to me. I have been known to lose my temper on occasion.
Your manners could do with some refinement. 
Until you can be civil, I suggest that you do not speak to me. I have been known to lose my temper. 
You have a simple choice to make, 
. Leave here or die.
Do you seek death? If so, you are dealing with the right mage, 
. I will gladly oblige you.
You are like the torax, being led to slaughter, 
. Except that you should have the reasoning to avoid it. I suggest that you think carefully before we resume our discourse.
You have a simple choice to make. Leave here or die. 
Do you seek death? If so, you are dealing with the right mage. I will gladly oblige you. 
You are like the torax, being led to slaughter. Except you should have the reasoning to avoid it. I suggest that you think carefully before we resume our discourse. 
Farewell, 
I will see you anon. Fare well until then, 
Goodbye. May the Fire of Pyros always burn brightly within you, 
Farewell. 
I will see you anon. Fare well until then. 
Goodbye. May the Fire of Pyros always burn brightly within you. 
I tire of our dicussion. Farewell, 
Come back when you really wish to speak to me, 
I tire of our dicussion. Farewell. 
Come back when you really wish to speak to me. 
Your perceptions are shallow, 
, if you cannot see that you approach the point at which I will cease to tolerate your existence.
If you were to die at this point, I do not believe there would be anyone to mourn your passing. Farewell, 
Your perceptions are shallow, if you cannot see that you approach the point at which I will cease to tolerate your existence. 
If you were to die at this point, I do not believe there would be anyone to mourn your passing. Farewell. 
Please do return when you wish to discuss something, 
If I can be of assistance to you in future, 
, don't hesitate to ask.
Please do return when you wish to discuss something. 
If I can be of assistance to you in future, don't hesitate to ask. 
I am a stranger here, please forgive me. 
Did I say something wrong? 
If I want your opinion, I'll give you one. 
You are beneath my contempt. 
Nevermind. 
Forgiven. What can I help you with? 
Did you say something right? Farewell, O' Confused One. 
-Me-? Beneath -your- contempt? I don't believe I've ever been spoken to that way. How refreshing. But, I can't let this go unpunished, you understand. 
Get used to being spoken to that way. 
I understand no such thing. 
I'm sorry, I really meant no offense. 
And if I want yours, I'll burn it out of you! If you ever speak to me again, I won't be responsible for my actions. 
No, I don't think I ever will. And you won't get used to speaking to me that way, or any way, for that matter.* Now, be so kind as to die! 
Well, with your limited understanding, I can see how that might be.*Nevertheless,... I must now destroy you. 
What a shame. I am truly sorry for you. For I cannot allow your actions to remain unanswered. If I were to forgive this heinous crime, the people of Tenebrae would think us weak. We can't let that happen, now can we? 
No, I guess not. 
Yes! We can! 
What crime? You -are- beneath my contempt. 
You pitiful excuse for a mage! Kneel before me. 
I'm glad to see that you're taking this so well. Strangely rational for you. Perhaps you're not such a bad sort, after all. 
No. I really am. 
Must we really battle? 
Thank you. It is sad to have to die, though. 
No, I'm afraid we can't. And stop simpering like that. I just can't tolerate weakness in others.*Now then, It's time for your sad life to end... Goodbye. 
And for that, you will pay with your life! 
Alright, that's it. -You- die! 
I am also glad to see that you face your death with some humor. I for one would not. Prepare yourself for battle! 
Yes, I'm afraid so. 
Perhaps you won't... It is possible, however unlikely, that you might defeat me. Don't you think? 
No, you are a Sorcerer. 
Yes, I suppose your're right! 
I suppose you're right. Well, that's no challenge. What do you want of me? 
Aren't you going to kill me? 
Umm... Nothing right now. 
Wait, I thought we were going to battle! 
I have a habit of doing that. Being right I mean. Anyway, What did you want, anyway? 
Well I was, but I have reconsidered. Unless you want me to, of course... 
Very well, then. I grant your wish. Prepare for your death. 
I didn't think so. Now, then. With what may I assist you? 
I do not like to be ignored, and if you're not ignoring me, you are slow-witted. I do not like slow-witted people either. 
So we were. Have at you! 
Nevermind.
I know that you have no idea what you have done, but let me tell you. You have allowed Vardion to destroy one of the most powerful, resourceful, and beautiful Sorcerers this isle has ever known. I shall never forgive you for it, even though Malchir has. Leave me be. 
Go! You have killed my closest comrade! What else would you have of me? Leave me alone! 
If you speak to me again, I shall allow you to feel the agony that you visited upon my lover! Leave or die! 
Now that you have joined us, you should busy yourself learning as much as you can about Sorcery. 
I must commend you on destroying that lumbering torax, Vardion. He would have driven the Sorcerers into obscurity. 
I am sure that there is something you should be doing. Run along now, I have much to do. 
Prepare well for the Trials of the Obsidian Fortress. You cannot leave once you have entered. 
I have no time to speak at the moment, matters press upon my time... Farewell. 
Whatever you need, Master, please take with my blessings. I will not disturb you unless you have need of my presence. Until then, I shall remain your humble servant. 
I would not presume to speak to you unless I had something worthy of discussion. As I do not, I will bother you no longer. 
stranger 
Who are you? 
What do you do here? 
Now then. Where were we? Let's start from the top. Why are you here? 
Why are any of us here? 
Because I wish to be! 
I have been banished here. 
How are you? 
If there is aught else you would discuss? 
My name is Beren. And yours is? 
I am called 
Call me what you like. 
Nevermind that. What do you do? 
. What do you want?
Fine then. I shall call you... stranger. What do you want? 
Well, I can tell you one thing. I don't talk to nosy strangers who won't even give me a name. 
Goodbye. 
My name is Beren. 
I am a mage. 
I am fine. Now that you have asked your questions, it is my turn to ask you mine. 
For what reason do you refuse to tell me your name? 
No reason. I am 
That is my own affair. 
I don't talk to nosy strangers. 
Thank you. I appreciate your candor, even if it was not offered initially. 
I don't like your answer, but I will accept it, stranger. 
Then leave! 
Why are you here? 
As well as can be expected. 
I really do have a lot on my mind. We have no business to conduct, so I see no reason why we should continue our discussion. 
Please. There is no reason for philosophizing. Just answer my question. 
Do not take that tone with me! Perhaps we will speak again when you can keep a civil tongue in your head. 
Oh really? Who has banished you here? 
An evil being of immense power. 
Why should I tell you? 
A big red guy called the Guardian. 
What is this evil being called? 
He is called the Guardian. 
Because, I hold your life in my hands like a kith holds its prey in silk. 
If the Guardian has sent you here, then you are not banished, but blessed. The Guardian will protect you as he has protected us. 
That's what scares me. 
What do you mean by protected? 
You speak blasphemy! The Guardian is the power that opposes the evil. When the Destroyer came, it was only through the Guardian's advice that we survived at all. 
What did you say? 
Do you think he cares about me. 
Nothing, nevermind. 
Of course. The Guardian is the provider of all good things. It is he who protected us in our time of need. 
I see. I could have sworn you said something, but it doesn't matter. 
I am not a historian and since ours is dead, go to the library and search out the knowledge in the books there. 
I am not a historian so I suggest you seek out Bentic, as he is very knowledgeable. Go to the library and search out the knowledge in the books there. I'm sure Bentic would just -love- to discuss the past with you. 

I do not understand. What did you say? 
What can you say of yourself? 
Tell me of this place? 
If there is naught else you would discuss, I would return to my studies... Is there anything you would speak on further? 
I could as well ask you that question,... but I shall speak first. I am a Sorcerer, Acolyte of the Cabal. What do you do? 
What is a Sorcerer? 
Tell me of the Acolytes. 
The Cabal. What is that? 
I am a warrior. 
I seek to leave this place. 
I cannot reveal that. 
I could tell by the marks on your hands that you were familiar with weapons. Have you also an interest in magic? 
Aye, I do. 
Nay, I do not. 
What magic do you speak of? 
Done. 
Then you have come to the right place to learn. I suggest you seek out Bane. She is the most knowledgeable Sorcerer I have had the privilege to know. 
Who is this Bane you speak of? 
I have met Bane. 
'Tis your loss then. More's the pity. 
Sorcery, of course. As a practitioner of the craft, I know of its immense power. Would you learn of it as well? 
What is Sorcery? 
Do you? Why? Does our land or people displease you so? 
Your people are cruel. 
This land is unforgiving. 
Both are contrary. 
No, I would return to -my- land and people. 
The times are hard. I pray, do not judge us so harshly. 
'Tis true, but we manage to survive, nonetheless. 
The times are hard. I pray, do not judge us so harshly. And as for the land... well, you are right. But we survive, nonetheless. 
An honorable goal. Perhaps we Sorcerers can be of assistance. 
How so? 
I think not. 
I do not need your help. 
Seek out Bane. She will be able to help you. She is the most intellectual of us all. 
Give us a chance. I am sure that Bane can help you. She is wise in the ways of Sorcery. 
Then you shall not have it. Farewell. 
Ah, so the mystery deepens. I ask only out of curiosity. But then I can curb my curiosity, as well as the information I give you. 
 Interesting, you wish to remain a mystery. I like mysteries, to a point. 
Of course. This is the Sorcerer's Enclave. It sits in Daemon's Crag, upon the isle of Morgaelin. 
What can you say of the Enclave? 
Tell me of Daemon's Crag and Morgaelin. 
A Sorcerer is a practitioner of the magic of Sorcery. I am an Acolyte Sorcerer of the Cabal. 
Well, there are four of us... Vardion, First Acolyte, Gorgrond, his faithful pet, Bane the Red, and myself. We are the ones that Master Malchir calls upon to aid in his great rituals. 
Tell me of Vardion and his position. 
Who is Gorgrond. 
Who is Master Malchir? 
What rituals do you mean? 
It is all Sorcerers, combined. 
She is my mentor. I was taught of my power by her tender hand. It is to her that you should go for answers. I am a mere shadow of her abilities and wit. 
Ah, then you know of her intelligence, her beauty, and her power. She is like a guiding beacon in a dark and stormy night. 
Sorcery is the art and craft of Fire. The Element that I have come here to study. Pyros, the Lord of Flame, is a powerful force in this world, and I would partake of that power. 
Element of Fire. What is it? 
Tell me of this Lord of Flame. 
Naught of great import. It is where we live. 
Very well. Daemon's Crag is a lava-filled ravine, that flows from Mt. Morgaelin. This volcano is what the island takes its name from. 
There is a tale that tells of the forming of the volcano. Would you hear it? 
Long ago, it is written, before Pagans warred with Zealans, a voice came to our people. He named himself the Guardian, and spoke of a time when a great Destroyer would come, bringing despair to all. 
The Guardian showed our ancestors how to make our Elements into Titanic forces that could defeat this Destroyer. They sacrificed and gave adoration to the Elements at a temple built on the top of this mountain. 
A great black obelisk was built there, and the Elements grew in power. At long last, the day came... The Day of the Destroyer. The Guardian warned our people that they must leave the temple. That the battle between the Destroyer and the Titans would take place there. 
So they fled into the forests around. Huge, glowing yellow eyes appeared in the sky above the mountain then. Surrounding them, a face of red. Manlike in form, his body came into being, but red as his face it was. 
He stood upon the mountain, and roared out his challenge to our world. It was met by the shaking of the Earth, the lashing of the Air, the rising of the Water, and the burning of Fire. 
When the sky once again cleared somewhat, most of my people were dead. The sea had taken some, fire others, the land swallowed yet more... But we survived! Only by the grace of the Guardian. 
Your ancestors were deceived. 
Quite an interesting tale. 
What?... What do you mean? 
Nothing. Nevermind. 
The Titans are evil. 
The Guardian is the Destroyer. 
No, not evil, just... independent. But we have come to terms with them, each in a different way. 
You know not of what you speak. I will hear no more about it. 
But where I am from... 
You do not understand... 
Wait. You must hear me out... 
Thank you for respecting my wishes. What else can I help you with? 
I said I would hear no more on the subject. Is there anything else you would ask me? 
Very well. What else would you know? 
Thank you. What else would you know? 
I hope this tale has entertained you. What else would you know? 
I see. Ah, well. What else would you know? 
Vardion is a petty overlord. He is loathe to give up any of his power to those better suited to run certain details. He cannot seem to delegate his authority, therefore we suffer. 
An Acolyte of no consequence. He is strong in magical resource, but his mental shortcomings more than belittle his magical prowess. 
He leads us in all things. Well,... he would if he were around more often. He remains busy with his own studies, leaving Vardion to lead us poorly. 
That is a subject best left to discuss if you become one of us. Speak to Bane. She will assist you in these matters. 
Are you daft? It is flame itself. It runs through the land as blood does in your veins. 
Pyros was the last Titan to be brought to terms. He was bound by my kind, long ago and is now at the beck and call of Master Malchir. A dangerous servant, to be sure, but a servant nonetheless. 
What is a Titan. 
A Titan is the personification of one of the four Elements. They are Earth, Water, Air, and of course Fire. I know little of the others, and Fire I study. 