So, you are back. 
What do you want? 
Sword play is an art form. 
You have interrupted my practice! 
Hmmm, my parries need some work. 
No one can best me! 
My blade needs cleaning... 
Perhaps more drilling on attacks... 
My practice armor needs repair. 
What to do about Jenna. 
I need a new sword... 
Good day to you. 
New around here, are you? 
Need some assistance? 
Stranger, are you lost? 
Nice day for a walk, is it not? 
Curses, I think it is going to rain again! 
I could use a new weapon... 
It is getting late... 
It seems too quiet around here... 
What to do about Jenna... 
Oh well... 
Maybe I'll go to the tavern for an ale. 
En guard! 
Watch this! 
Yes, I do. I have leather armor called cuir-bouilli, leather leggings and boots, leather gloves and bracers, and a helm. Would you be interested in any of these? 
Cuirbolli. 
Leather leggings and boots. 
Leather gloves and bracers. 
Helmet. 
Nothing, thank you. 
A fine choice. That'll cost you 6 blacks. Will you take it? 
Ah, you won't be disappointed in the quality. The price is 5 bright stones. Do we have a deal? 
Every warrior needs boots and leggings. A set of mine will cost you 10 stones. 
Just the thing for those long journeys. For 2 black stones it can be yours. 
Well, you're turning down a good deal here, you know. Ah well, there is no accounting for taste, I suppose. 
If you didn't want anything, why did you ask? 
Here is the amount. 
Never mind, thank you. 
There you go. Thank you for your business. 
Ha ha, you may be strong, but you can't carry all that! Why don't I just keep this for you until you have room for it. 
Hey, what are you trying to do here? Cheat me? Come back when you've got some real money to spend! 
Oh well, 'Tis your loss! 

Can't make your mind up? Well, just think on it a while. 
You may strike first. 
Time is up! 
Come back when you need training again. 
I will not chase cowards! 
The late Captain of the Guard. 
Darion, Captain of the Guard 
Darion
Captain of the Guard 
man 
You are blocking the way! Move! 
Oowwww... 
Argh... 
A moment, sir! 
Hello there. 
What?! What do you want?! Can't you see this is an emergency situation?! 
An emergency situation? 
I see you've come back. You've reconsidered about my daughter then, have you? 
I regret to tell you no. 
Yes, I want to marry your daughter! 
Miserable weather and all, we're having, eh 
.
Yes, just terrible, Captain Darion. 
Miserable weather and all we're having, eh? 
Yes, just terrible, Captian Darion. 
Good day to you, 
Good morrow, Captain Darion. 
Hail! 
Good day to you, Sir. 
And as you can see, I am a trainer. Since you appear to be in shape I could take you on as a student if you so desire. Only ask, and I will spar with you. 
I need training. 
bye 
And good day to you. 
May I know your name? 
I am Darion, the Arms Master and Captain of the Palace Guard here in Tenebrae. 
And you? 
Tell me about the palace. 
Tell me about Tenebrae. 
Who are the Palace Guards? 
I am 
I heard a tale from Orlok. 
Do you sell armaments? 
Well met, 
Ich heiáe 
Freut mich, 
Je suis 
Enchant‚, 
I don't know what we'll do if it gets much worse. 
Good morrow to you, 
Good morrow to you. 
What do you know about Salkind? 
I met Bentic. 
I met Kilandra. 
I met your daughter, Jenna. 
So Devon is now your Tempest. 
I'm interested in your wares. 
I would be glad to have you as a student! 
I charge 50 black stones per session, and I guarantee that you will get your moneys worth. 
Do you still wish to spar with me? 
Draw your weapon and prepare for combat. 
It looks like you do not have the money. 
I am sorry, but I do not give credit. Try me later when you can afford my services. 
Do not worry, I will look upon you as a coward for not accepting my offer. 
My armaments are the finest available. Are you looking for something in particular? 
Yes, I am. 
No, I'm not. 
What do you have? 
No, sorry. 
Ok, well, if you change your mind, let me know. 
Have you reconsidered about Jenna, then? 
Bye 
And make no mistake, I will serve him as I served Mordea. I am loyal to the Tempestry, I am. 
That is not unusual from him. He's got quite a few of them. 
This tale concerned a ghost. 
Ghosts? In my town? Never!! Why If there were any ghosts seen here it would only be in the minds of those who had too much of Orlok's ale. I'll just bet he's been talking to those simple-minded herdsmen in the hills again. They are always spreading some crazy story around. Spend too much time with their torax, that's what I think. Ghosts? Pshaw! No such things ... and I'll mind you not to spread tales like that. Upsets the citizens of this town, it does. Now, if you'll excuse me.
The palace is the home of our Tempest, Devon. 
The palace is the home of our Tempest, the Lady Mordea. 
Who is Lady Mordea? 
Ah, Tenebrae, 'tis the finest gem in this fair land. I have served this city and her leaders since I was a mere lad, as an apprentice in the guard. I welcome you, 
, to our fair city.
Ah, Tenebrae, 'tis the finest gem in this fair land. I have served this city and her leaders since I was a mere lad, as an apprentice in the guard. I welcome you to our fair city. 
The fair Tempest of our City. 
The finest fighting regiment in the land. But there is not much call for defense anymore. We mostly spend our time in preserving the peace. That's not to say we wouldn't be ready if needed, though. 
Ready for what? 
Of course, you never know what those Necromancers are up to. And we do have our fine Tempest to defend. 
Who is the Tempest? 
Who are the Necromancers? 
You defend her? 
Of course, our Tempest is more than capable of defending herself. She has a portion of Hydros' power. 
Why, she is the representative of that mightiest of Titans, Hydros. Hydros' visage is much too fearsome and powerful for the likes of you and I, so Lady Mordea serves as her representative. In exchange, Lady Mordea is able to wield some of the power from Hydros. 
What power? 
Who is Hydros? 
Why do you think we have fair weather all the day? With her share of Hydros' power, Lady Mordea is able to control the weather. 'Tis a blessing, it is. 
Keep a respectful tongue in your head when you speak that name, my friend. The Lurker is a force to be reckoned with. She is the power of all the waters. She can be as gentle as a spring rain or as powerful and terrible as a thundering waterfall. She is the mightiest of all the Titans. Well worth your respect and worship. 
Filthy things, they live in the cemetery and muck about with dead bodies. They serve the Titan Lithos. 'Tis no wonder there are so few Necromancers left. Only those who grub for a paltry living from the mud and dirt have anything to do with Lithos and the Necromancers. Phaw! 
Tell me about the cemetery. 
Only a few Necromancers? 
I do not know exactly how many there are, but even one is one too many for my liking. 
That's where those filthy creatures keep their home. They like to be as near the dead as they can. If you ask me, I think they wait until late in the night and then dig up the bodies so they can do all manner of grotesque things to them. It churns my belly to think of it. 
By Hydros' spume, man! Can't you see? The dead are walking the streets! I have a town to protect! A Tempest to find! People to calm! I haven't time for gawkers! 
Hmmmmm, I don't know much about him, except he is always at the side of Lady Mordea. I'm not sure I trust him. 
Why don't you trust Salkind? 
Well, the Tempest has always ruled alone. This seneschal bit seems to go against our fine line of tradition here in Tenebrae. I'm not sure I agree, but then, Lady Mordea seems to like him, so I'll protect him as well as her. 
Ah, she is a beauty, isn't she? She is my pride and joy, you know. Why, she is the exact picture of her dear, departed mother. 
What happened to her mother? 
She is beautiful. 
That is a sad tale. She was the love of my life. A beauty with long blonde hair and eyes as green as the Sea of Rains. She took with the fever shortly after dear Jenna was born. I did everything I could, but it was no use. She died in my arms and with her last breath whispered, 'I love you'. 
That is a tragic tale. 
I can only honor her with my memories, for there is no physical marker for her, no grave. 
Why is there no grave? 
There was a grave, there WAS one. But one day as I went to leave flowers on her stone, as was my want, I found the grave ripped open and the body missing. It could only be the work of those filthy Necromancers. It pains me still to think of it. 
That she is. Every man in town has asked for her hand, but I'm afraid there is too much of her father in her. I do wish she could find the right one, though. But it will take someone with a strength of character and a soundness of mind that you just don't find around here. Perhaps it will take someone... someone much like yourself, hmmmm? 
Did I tell you that she can wield a sword as well as any man? Taught her myself. Right dangerous she is with that thing. 
Did I mention she can cook? She makes a fine pie, Yessir, makes my mouth water just thinking about it. 
She keeps an immaculate house, she does. Why you could eat right off the floor. 
She's a beauty, all right. A man would be right proud to have her by his side. 
Oh, and did I mention how much she loves children? Wants a house full of them, she does. 
GOODBYE! 
You're sure then? Did I mention that she is educated and can discuss many matters of interest quite well? 
Oh that's wonderful! But, ummm...there is one little detail I forgot to mention, Oh but it's a little thing, it can wait till after the ceremony. Now, how soon do you want the ceremony? 
What little detail? 
What ceremony? 
Just a little something. Ummmm, well, it's really nothing. Ummm, has she mentioned whether or not she likes you, at all? 
She is angry with me. 
Oh, she likes me. 
Oh that is wonderful. Perhaps that will avoid the problem then. 
What problem? 
Oh, that could be a problem. 
Well, it's just that she, ahhh, has...well it's a little embarrassing, it seems she has sworn to kill any man chosen for her to marry...see, nothing really. 
Why the wedding ceremony, of course. I could arrange it for quite soon. 
Then that's settled. You'll think about it and get back to me with your answer. 
Ah yes, he was just executed...for conducting forbidden research, if I remember rightly. He was a good fellow, too bad he got involved in such shady dealings. 
What shady dealings? 
Orlok told a story of Bentic. 
Bentic, now there's a good fellow. Always in his library, he is. Stays out of trouble. Too bad more of our citizens aren't more like that. 
Well, you know...just, shady ones. Ones that are forbidden by Lady Mordea. Ahem, I can't say anymore than that, you know, official policy and all. 
Of course he did, he's Orlok, after all and he does enjoy his story. Didn't tell you the one about the map on Bentic's chest, did he? Well, that's nothing but hogwash. I had cause to visit Bentic in his home one day. He was wearing a robe and showed his chest quite plainly. There was no map on it. 
Do you know of Blowhard's treasure? 
So, come for treasure, have you? Well, you're not the first young man to come to me with that look in your eye. No sirree, in fact, were I a younger man, I might take it into my head to look, myself. 
Where would you look? 
Well, when I was just a tyke, my father told me a story Much like one of Orlok's stories about John Blowhard. Only my father's story went this way. A bunch of trolls had taken up residence on an island. They raided neighboring villages and stole the children away to eat them. One night, the trolls came again and tried to steal the last child in the village. The child's mother was so enraged, she grabbed one of her knitting needles and killed the troll. Stratos was so impressed by this mother's defense, she turned the knitting needle into a magical sword. It is said this sword is hidden somewhere in the mountains outside Tenebrae, perhaps in Herdsman's valley. Were I looking for treasure, that's where'd I'd look.
She is a crazy old thing, isn't she? 
Her tale is tragic. 
Oh, told you about her daughter, did she? Well, ever since that little girl died, she has not been the same. Never comes into town, never speaks to anyone. Rather pathetic, if you ask me. 
Farewell. 
Stay out of trouble. 
uuuhhhhgggg... 
aahhhhrrrggg... 