dead guardsman 
guardsman 
I am 
.
Guardsman! 
Halt, stranger! 
Blimey, not again... 
What is it this time? 
What can I do ya for? 
What! More questions! 
What is this city? 
Open the gate! 
Bye 
I am the Avatar! 
What is your name? 
I have seen many strange things in my time, but I've never seen the likes of ya. 
What be yer name, stranger? 
Who am I? I'll tell ya who am I! I'm the one who's asking tha questions here! 
Who might ya be? Ain't seen the likes of ya before in this here city. 
The Avatar? Blimey, ya say it like ya think yer important or somethin'. 
Listen, bloke, if ya don't want to find yerself in the belly of the Lurker yer'll soon change that tone of yers. 
The Lurker? 
Say, ya don't know what tha Lurker is? 
Best ya check out what's at the end of the dock, lest ya become fish bait yerself. 
All right, 
, now I know ya. Now get lost!
I don't need Lady Mordea catching me chatting with some pauper. She's not in a right good mood today. 
Or maybe ya haven't noticed what goin' on at the end of tha dock. I'd advise ya to go see for yerself. 
What do ya mean, 'What is this city?' 
Do ya have brain fever, lad? It's only tha largest pile of bricks in the known world! 
Tenebrae it is! And don't ya go now forgetin' it. 
If you don't know what this city is, then you ought not be entering its gates. 
Everyone knows that it's Tenebrae, dolt! 
Look, I've already told ya once, this gate is not gonna open til I see that axe come down on the back of Toran's neck! 
Those are me lady's orders, and ya ain't gonna find the likes of me disobeyin' them, less my neck be tha next! 
Bugger off! 
Oh! Ya want me to open this gate? 
Sure I will! In fact, I'll not only just fling them open for ya, I'll scoop ya up in me lovin' arms and carry ya into the city meself! 
No! I'll -not- be openin' this gate! Not under pain of death! 
This gate ain't gonna be openin' til after the execution! 
Ya can enter the city after they behead poor Toran, but not till then. 
Come back later! 
Yeah, yeah... 