the corpse of Jenna 
dead woman 
Jenna the barmaid 
Jenna
barmaid 
woman 
Help me, Beren! 
Town Sorcerer! 
Excuse me, I'm trying to work. 
Need something? 
Need something?
If you want something, take a seat! 
I said, take a seat! 
The Torax ribs look great today. 
I think the ribs are ready. 
I'd better check. 
That table needs another round of ale. 
Hmmmm... 
I'd rather be out, adventuring. 
This sword can sure get in the way. 
Oh no, Orlok's telling that tale again! 
I've heard that one a hundred times. 
By the Titans! What a mess they left! 
I really need a day off. 
Why is this open? 
Who left this open? 
We have Tenebraean Ale, Blackwine, Hurricanes, Breath O'Spirit and Cloven Hoof. 
Tenebraean Ale 
Black Wine 
Hurricane 
Breath O'Spirit 
Cloven Hoof 
Nothing, thank you. 
Our Tenebraean ale is the finest. It'll costs one glassy black. 
The Blackwine is my favorite. It costs three obsidians. 
Don't drink too many of these, they're quite potent. One costs two ladies. 
Oh, I think Breath O'Spirit is really an aquired taste. But if you insist, it'll be two ladies. 
Ah, the finest in the house. I see you have good taste. Our Cloven Hoof is five smooth black chips. 
Well, call if you change your mind. 
Can't make up your mind? Oh well. 
Here is the amount. 
Never mind, thank you. 
Thanks. Enjoy. 
Why, you haven't enough stone! Sorry, come back when you've more money. 
Hmmm, you can't take this. Your hands are full. I'll just hold it until you are ready. 
Let me know if you change your mind. 

Well, I don't have time to stand here all day. If you want something, let me know. 
Well, we have a good kitchen here. We serve fish, Toraxen Jerky, Kith filet, bread, mushrooms, tubers and Toraxen cheese. 
fish 
Toraxen jerky 
Kith filet 
bread 
mushrooms 
tubers 
Toraxen cheese 
It's very fresh. Kilandra just brought it in today. It will cost you only one obsidian. 
Hmmm, planning a long trip? It's a bit tough, but travels well. It is 3 stones a pound. 
Ah, you do have good taste. Our filet of Kith is the finest in the land. It only costs 8 blacks. 
The Blue Mushrooms are my favorite. We can only serve them at this time because this is the only time they are in season. They will cost you only a single coin. 
It was baked fresh just today. You can have a serving for 1 stone. 
I don't know if I would eat them alone. They are very good with the filet. But if you wish, you may have them for one glassie. 
Not everyone likes Toraxen cheese. It has a bit of a pungent flavor. It costs 1 black stone. 
If you change your mind, let me know. 
My name is 
.
What do you want? 
Good day to you, Jenna. 
Hello. 
What is your name? 
You're lucky I don't skewer you where you stand. 
I am sorry if I upset you. 
Just try it! 
Well, hello again, 
Good to see, friend. 
Good to see you, 
Good to see you, friend. 
Hello, Jenna. 
What strange weather this is. 
bye 
How can I help you? 
Why do you carry a sword? 
What do you do? 
I'd like something to drink, please. 
I'd like something to eat. 
Orlok sure likes his tales. 
You don't have to tell me. I've heard every one of them at least a thousand times. And let me tell you, they get bigger with each telling. Did he tell you the ghost story yet? 
Yes, he has. 
No, he hasn't. 
You know, of all his tales, that one is the only one that never changes when he tells it. I always wondered if there wasn't a grain of truth in it. Why, just the other night I heard my father, Darion, asking Orlok about that story. I don't know why, though. Anyway, what can I get you? 
Well, don't you worry, he will. He always does. It's one of his favorites. Now, what can I get for you? 
I can't believe it. I've heard some fool somehow released Hydros and now our Tempest has no power to control the weather. It's even been said that Hydros is going to try to wash away the town! 
Do they know who did it? 
I released Hydros. 
They are not sure. But when they do find out, it's going to be ugly. They probably will design some hideous torture for that person! Anyway, what can I get you? 
Ha, ha, ha! I'm sorry, but I don't think -you- are the type to release a -Titan-! The thought is rather funny. Ha, ha, ha! Now, what can I get for you? 
May I have something to drink? 
My name is Jenna, and yours? 
That's a pretty name. 
Well met, 
Because it is mine, and I'll have you know I'm not afraid to use it. 
You know how to use a sword? 
Yes, this blade has sent more than one man running for his life! 
You have killed men? 
It is a nice blade. 
Only one or two. Most know to stay clear of me. 
Why do they stay clear? 
They stay clear because I do not want them around. My father calls them 'suitors', I call them a nuisance. 
Suitors? 
I met your father. 
Who is your father? 
You know, male callers. They show up here and hang around like mooncalves. One in particular was bad. His name was Cyrrus. 
I met Cyrrus. 
Tell me of Cyrrus. 
Oh, he is a dull thing, isn't he? All he ever used to talk about were those darn torax. He wanted me to marry him and live in the hills and be a herdsman's wife. I was certainly glad when he went to Argentrock. 
Why did he go to Argentrock? 
Where is Argentrock? 
It is quite a way from here. I'm not exactly sure, but I know you must travel through the cemetary to get there. 
He was a herdsman's son. He wanted to marry me and live in the hills tending torax. Now torax may be wonderful to him, but I think they are stupid and they smell. I was so glad when he went to Argentrock. 
They say he has some talent for healing. He always did feel closer to Stratos than he did to Hydros, though he didn't tell his family that. They would have been very angry. Well, I don't know if he ever became a healer, I'm just glad he is gone. 
Yes, he is quite a man. He tries to marry me off to everyone who comes through town. He's afraid I'm going to be an old maid. 
An old maid? 
Darion, the Arms Master and Captain of the Palace Guard, is my father. He thinks I am going to be an old maid and tries to marry me off to everyone who comes around. 
I am NOT an old maid! How dare you say that?! You are just like my father! I can't kill him, but I can you and I just might. Now, get out while I still feel civil! 
Yes, it is a fine blade, a wondrous blade. Have you ever seen finer? 
yes 
no 
It's all I have left from my grandfather. Before he died, he gave me this sword and told me to wear it with pride. And I always have. 
Where did you learn to wield it? 
My father taught me. He always wanted a son, but all he got was me. So he taught me. He is determined to marry me off, though. 
You wretch! How dare you insult my grandfather's memory? You will pay for your disrespect! Now get out of my sight, before I decide to show you just how fine this blade is! 
Well, for now I'm a barmaid. Can I get you a drink or something to eat? 
A barmaid for now? 
Yes. It was the only job I could find at short notice. What I really want to do is go adventuring, like you. Oh, how I would like to see something of the world beyond this smelly village. 
Smelly village? 
Job at short notice? 
See the world? 
Yes, ugh. Can you not smell it? The rancid odor of fish combined with the nasty smell of those stupid torax. Sometimes I think that even if I left the smell would still be in my blood. It's terrible. 
Well, see, my father wanted me married. He seems to think that a woman can't support herself. She must have a husband to make her a complete person. Well, just to prove to him I could do it, I got this job. It's not much, but it got me out of the house. 
Ah, what I wouldn't give to see it all, but I can't. 
What is there to see? 
Why can't you see it? 
Why, just the whole world. I've heard there are sorcerers who can call up the forces of fire and ancient ruins where hordes of treasure await anyone brave enough to fight the evil creature guarding it. 
Because I am a woman, so they say. 
Why can't a woman adventure? 
There are those who say only young men are interested in adventuring, and women are only interested in cooking and shopping. Well, I say they are wrong! There mayn't be many of us, but we are here. Maybe someday they will realize it. Until then, how about that drink? 
Yes, what do you have to drink? 
No, thank you. 
Well, If you change your mind, just let me know. 
Do you live here? 
Yes, all my life. I was born not far from the cemetery. 
Tell me about the cemetery. 
How old are you? 
What a question! Why, I'm old enough to know how to use this sword! And I might be tempted to use it on you if you don't learn better manners! 
I do not like the place. 'Tis haunted. 
Where is it? 
Haunted? 
It is on the other side of Tenebrae. You will have to head east from here, going right past the Tempest's keep, through the east side of town, then down a long, dangerous road. 
I wouldn't go there if I were you. 
Why not go there? 
Yes, with the ghosts of those horrid Necromancers. 
It's a terrible place, a frightening place. The Necromancers used to be there. Terrible people they are, study dead bodies. Some say they even eat them! Only one person I know of travels there willingly and that is Mythran. 
Tell me about the Necromancers. 
They study dead bodies? 
Tell me of Mythran. 
Mythran is an old hermit that lives on the Plateau. Some call him a sage, but I think he wields magic. Occasionally he comes into town. I guess he buys things for all those scrolls he makes. 
Scrolls? 
Magical scrolls, I think. Why, once I saw him read from one and unlock the door to the palace when I KNEW it was locked. I don't know what he was doing in there, and I didn't ask. Best to just keep quiet, if you ask me. 
Great power they have, power over life and death. I shiver to think about it. 
That's why they live in the cemetery, so they always have a fresh supply. I think the ghosts of their victims are there, looking for their bodies. 
If it is a lady's company you are after, then I am afraid you have come to the wrong establishment. 
I have a long memory for slights. It is only out of respect for Orlok that I will hold my temper. 
You animal! I will not disgrace Orlok's trust in me by fighting in his tavern. Now get out! 
What do you mean, 'good day'?! Can you not see what is happening? The dead have left their graves and are walking the streets of Tenebrae! Darion needs my sword, I have no time to chat now! 
Good day to you. 