the body of Kilandra 
dead woman 
Kilandra the fisherwoman 
Kilandra 
Fisherwoman 
woman 
Beren! I am assaulted! 
What are you doing there...? 
How 'bout some fish, mate? 
Well, what can I do fer ye' stranger...? 
Need something, friend? 
Well, what are ye lookin' at, 
.
Ye know, the fish have stories to tell. 
Ye should listen to 'em sometime. 
I wonder how the fish are running today. 
Hmmmm... 
Looks to be a fine day for sailin'. 
About time to head out to sea. 
I sure could use a rest. 
Maybe I'll take a little nap. 
A nice bit o' fish would sure taste good. 
Me bones say there's a storm a brewin'. 
I am 
Excuse me. 
Hello there. 
Tell me about ghosts. 
Do you know of a key? 
Tell me where the key is! 
Hello, Kilandra. 
Hello 
Kilandra? 
Pardon me. 
bye 
Well, what can I do for ye today, stranger? 
Pleased to meet ye, I am Kilandra. I haven't seen ye' here before. Are ye' new in town? 
Yes 
No 
Well then, welcome. I don't get into town much, so I'm afraid I would be a poor guide there. But I can tell ye about the Sea of Rains. Been fishin' it for years. I knows it like the back of me hand. 
Tell me of the Sea of Rains. 
Tell me of Tenebrae. 
Ghosts? Ghosts, ye say? Well, why would ye be wanting to know about ghosts? 
I'm looking for a ghost. 
I heard Orlok's ghost story. 
No particular reason. 
Looking for a ghost, eh? That's a strange thing for a nice young man like yerself to be doing! There is one ghost I'd like to find, that of my daughter. If I could find her ghost, maybe I could find a way to bring her back. 
Of course, and ye would be one of those young men thinking to find riches and adventure by disturbing the dead. It's bad business, bad business I say. Why, no one should go about mucking in the affairs of the dead. They don't like it, no sirree. Why I talk to my daughter all the time and she tells me all about being dead, and how much they dislikes the living. 
You talk to your daughter? 
Hmmm, ye're a peculiar one, ye are. 
A key? Well, of course. I have several keys. Was there one in particular you were looking for? 
A key to the door in the cavern. 
No key in particular. 
What a strange question. I have only two keys. One to my door and one to my sea chest. My, ye are a strange 'en. 
A door in a cavern? Why would there be a door in a cavern? 
It was built by trolls. 
It leads to the Pit of Death. 
John Blowhard's treasure is there. 
Built by trolls? That is the silliest story I've ever heard. Built by trolls, ha! Trolls don't know how to build anything. I think ye've been taking a nip of ol' Orlok's private stock there, mate. 
You know Orlok? 
'Course I know him. That old windbag. His story's are nothing but bunk. 
Does not. 
How do you know? 
I know because...because my daughter told me. She says there is only one way to the Pit of Death and that is through the Realm of Lithos. 
No it isn't. 
Where is the treasure, then? 
There is no treasure. Orlok's full of hot wind, he is. Tells that tale to everyone, expecting them to believe them. Why my daughter even knows that. 
Of course. I sit on her grave and talk with her by the hour. She's a good listener, she is. Why nearly as good as the fish. She gives good advice, too. 
Good advice? 
Certainly. She tells me when the fish will be running and when there will be a storm. She even offered to guard my house for me. 'Course I told her no. Didn't want no daughter of mine doing lowly guard work! 
The key? Oh, that key! Why my daughter has it. 
Your daughter?! 
Yes, she said she would keep it safe for me. I figure she keeps it with her. Can't get much safer than the grave! 
Hmmm, I guess I need to get into town more. I'm a'feared I don't recognize ye. Who's your mama? 
Lady Mordea 
No one important 
I'm not from Tenebrae. 
Ah, the Sea of Rains. She is a temperamental lady, she is. One day she will give ye enough of her bounty to feed the entire city...then she'll forsake ye for weeks and laugh while ye starve. 
I don't get into town much...and I likes it that way. The city is no good. 
Why is the city no good? 
Lady Mordea?! Ack, then I'll have none of ye! Get out of my sight! 
What does ye mean, no one important? Does ye'r mother mean nothing to ye? Oh, ungrateful child! There is nothing that tears my poor heart worse than an ungrateful child! 
What's that? Ye'r not from Tenebrae? Well, then ye are more blessed than ye knows. 'Tis a bad place, Tenebrae. 
Why is Tenebrae bad? 
The Tempest, that's why! Lady Mordea is a selfish, black-hearted woman. Why, taking a bath was more important to her than saving the life of an innocent child! 
A bath was more important?! 
The child was a little girl with hair of honey gold and eyes the color of the Sea of Rains. She was a beautiful child, but had taken very ill. 
What happened to the child? 
Her mother carried her to the steps of the palace where she begged to see the Tempest. The Tempest has great powers and if anyone could heal the girl, the Tempest could. But that water rat named Salkind came out and told the mother that Lady Mordea was taking a bath and could not be disturbed, especially to help a filthy gutter snipe. 
Did the child recover? 
filthy gutter snipe!? 
That's what he said. Can you believe that cold hearted weasel? 
Her mother carried her back to the little shack they shared and tried to doctor her as best she could...but it was no use. The girl passed to Pit of Death that night. 
How do you know this? 
I know this because that little girl was Elaina...my daughter. 
I am so sorry. 
Lady Mordea is dead! 
Well, I appreciate yer thoughts, but ye needn't apologize for sumthin' that ain't yer fault. So, how long are ye plannin' to stay around here? 
Not long 
Several months, at least. 
Well, it's smart that ye are. I would leave too, if it weren't for the Sea. Ah, since my little Elaina left me, the Sea is my only love, the sea and all its little critters. Fine companions, those critters are. They mayen't say much, but they are good listeners. 
Who are good listeners? 
Why the fish, 'course. They're wise, they are. Would do ye good to listen to them one day, seek their council. 
Oh, might want to rethink that, ye might. I told ye, Tenebrae is not a good place. 
She is dead? Then who is the Tempest? 
Devon is Tempest. 
Devon? What great news is this? Devon is a kind and fair man. He'll have no more of those bloody executions, I'm sure! 
YE! I thought I told ye to leave! Now I advise ye do it, and do it quick. A'fore I cuts ye into fish bait. 
Ah, so ye's returned. What can I do for you? 
Tell me about your daughter. 
The weather is certainly bad. 
Ye'r telling me! Why I haven't seen rain like this in all my days. I haven't been able to put out to sea since it started. Why, even the fish didn't expect this, or I'm sure they'd have said something to me about it. That Tempest is certainly got a lot of explainin' to do! 
The fish tell you of weather? 
I caused this weather. 
It is not Devon's fault. 
Ye? Hmmm. No, I don't think I believe ye. Only the Tempest can effect the weather. I don't believe you are the Tempest. 
I released Hydros. 
Ye say ye released Hydros, do ye? Well, sure ye did, now lad, sure ye did. And this caused the rains, then? Well, what else have ye done? Been to the Pit of Death? Seen the Shrine of the Ancients? Har, har, har. Oh lad, Ye need to get away, some place calm and quiet, maybe take up fishing. This traveling life has really been a little hard on ye, hasn't it? 
Devon? Is that lad the Tempest then? Oh my. He is a good lad. The fish knew there was something about him. Whispered his name often, they did. 
Of course. They tell me lots of things. In fact, ye ought to take the time out to talk to them yer'self! 
That's something I'ds rather not speak of. The pain is very fresh. 
What? Are ye deaf? I want no part of ye! Get out of my sight! 
I saw her. Oh by the Titans, I saw her! She was wet and covered with slime, and the fish had eaten half of her beautiful face. Oh, how can I bear it? I ask you, how?! 
Farewell. 