Salkind the late Seneschal 
Salkind the Seneschal 
the very late Salkind 
Salkind
dead Seneschal 
Seneschal 
corpse 
man 
What do you think you are doing? 
Don't hurt me! 
Please! I'll do anything... 
Leave me be! 
Out of my house or I shall call the guards! 
Are we lost, perhaps? 
Leave, or I shall summon the guards! 
Please, I wish to be alone. 
Can a man have his privacy? 
Do you wish to speak to me? 
Where is that girl? 
Aramina?
Where is that logbook...? 
dum de dum... 
Where did I put that? 
Oh, yes... 
Where are my documents? 
He will pay dearly for that. 
Where is my jeweled dagger...? 
Who keeps opening these? 
Out of my way! I must attend to her Ladyship! 
Greetings stranger. 
One moment, Salkind... 
May I ask your name? 
bye 
Oh, returned, have we? Don't we have some nerve, hmmmmm? 
I would like to speak with you. 
We certainly were never taught manners, were we? 
I have no time for your nonsense. 
Who is Lady Mordea? 
What is a Tempest? 
What do you know about Bentic? 
What do you know about Devon? 
How may I be of assistance? 
Greetings. 
Certainly, I am Salkind. And who might we be? 
I am 
.
None of your concern. 
And what can I help you with today, hmmmm?
What do you do? 
Je suis 
Et en quoi puis-je t'estre utile aujourd'hui, hmmmm?
Ich heiáe 
Ah, wirklich ein sch”ner Name, den wir da haben. Und? Was gibt es noch zu fragen?
What do I do? My, we are a nosy little thing, aren't we? Well, if you must know, I am the Seneschal to Lady Mordea. 
What is a seneschal? 
Lady Mordea?! Why, out of what torax field did we crawl? She is only our Tempest. Perhaps we should go lie down and have a little rest. It seems our mind is a bit addled. 
Apparently we were not taught our manners well at all. I shall not tolerate such rudeness. Begone! 
Oh my, we aren't too up on titles are we? Yes, I am the seneschal. It is my duty to take care of running the day to day affairs of the city so that our Tempest, the Lady Mordea, can concentrate on more important things. 
Tell me about Lady Mordea. 
What more important things? 
Surely you have heard of the Tempest? Oh, I see, we are just a visitor to this city, eh? Well, the Tempest is the handmaiden to the Great Titan of Water Hydros. 
What are the Tempest duties? 
Who is Hydros? 
How is it we don't know about the Tempest? Are we a very busy person or perhaps a little simple-minded? Well, no matter. The Tempest has the ability to touch a portion of the power of Hydros. 
Ah, the great Water Titan, the Lurker. What ever title she goes by, she is the most powerful of the Titans. The Lady Mordea can use a bit of Hydro's power to control the weather and all things of water. 
She is a wise ruler and a fierce leader, most worthy of the title, 'Tempest'. So many times people say 'This thing or that thing cannot be done.' and yet she does it. Do we not now have much lower crime than under the previous Tempest? There is your proof! 
Tell me about the title 'Tempest'. 
My, my, my. We really are a bit simple, aren't we? Perhaps we've been drinking a bit too much of Orlok's ale, hmmmm? Well, just to humor you, I'll refresh your memory. The title of Tempest is given to the leader of the city of Tenebrae. To become the Tempest, one must have been born of the royal family. It is only through heredity one may sit upon the throne. 
Why is the Tempestry hereditary? 
Because the powers that are necessary to bear the title are only transferred from parent to child. Lady Mordea received the power from her father. Does that make things a little clearer for you? 
Who was Lady Mordea's father? 
Didn't you learn anything as a child? Lord Keldan was Lady Mordea's father! And might I add that Lady Mordea is twice the Tempest Lord Keldan ever was. Why, if it weren't for his wife's encouragement, he would never have admitted his powers and assumed the title of Tempest, and then where would we be? 
Well, if it were to be common knowledge what the Tempest does, then there would be no mystery...no majestic mystique, hmmm? 
That knave! He was conducting forbidden research. Why I am pleased we took care of him when we did. Nipped that problem right in the bud, we did. 
You 'took care of him?' 
What is 'forbidden research'? 
He was executed, of course. 
Executed?! 
Yes, on the docks. Oh, it is the best way. And we do it on the docks so that the site is easily washed down. No mess, no fuss. It is my job to schedule the executions. I keep records of all executions in my log book. 
What do you mean the 'best way'? 
What log book? 
Why, my log book. I have to keep records of these sorts of things, you know. Why, how else would we keep track of expenses and such? Lady Mordea requires a full accounting of these things. It's all part of the thankless job of the seneschal. But that's all right, just knowing that I've done my job to the best of my ability is all the reward I need. 
The quicker the better. Can't have prisoners cluttering up the jails, costing the taxpayers' money. This way we keep costs down and add a serious deterrent to those who might be thinking of breaking the law. 
If I told you what research was forbidden, then I'd just be encouraging you, wouldn't I, hmmmm? 
That trouble maker. Well, he will be taken care of, and well he deserves it. 
What are the charges? 
That is privileged information. It will be revealed at the execution. Good heavens, it's almost time. Oh, and there is -so- much to do before an execution. Arrange for the clean up crew, make sure Shaana's axe is sharpened...I've enjoyed our little talk, but I must leave now. Good day. 
Well, have we learned our manners? 
yes, sir 
no 
Well, that's a little more like it. Perhaps there is some hope for us after all, hmmmm? Now, what can I do for you? 
Don't toy with me! I won't stand for it! 
Swine! 
Farewell. 
Good day to you, stranger. 
Until we meet again. 